INPUT : 
With advancements in large language models, artificial intelligence (AI) is undergoing a paradigm shift where AI models can be repurposed with minimal effort across various downstream tasks. This provides great promise in learning generally useful representations from biomedical corpora, at scale, which would empower AI solutions in healthcare and biomedical research. Nonetheless, our understanding of how they work, when they fail, and what they are capable of remains underexplored due to their emergent properties. Consequently, there is a need to comprehensively examine the use of language models in biomedicine. This review aims to summarize existing studies of language models in biomedicine and identify topics ripe for future research, along with the technical and analytical challenges w.r.t. interpretability. We expect this review to help researchers and practitioners better understand the landscape of language models in biomedicine and what methods are available to enhance the interpretability of their models. 
OUTPUT: 
OVERALL FACTUALITY 
89% Highly Factual 
{ "report_title": "Forensic Scientific Report: Analysis of Language Models in Biomedicine", "editor_in_chief": "FailSafe", "executive_summary": { "overall_assessment": "The original text presents a robust and scientifically sound overview of the role and potential of large language models (LLMs) in biomedicine. The core assertions regarding advancements, paradigm shifts, and the promise of AI solutions in healthcare are overwhelmingly supported by established scientific literature. While the text's claims about 'minimal effort' in repurposing and the precise causality of 'emergent properties' behind a lack of understanding are subject to nuance and ongoing scientific debate, these points reflect active research rather than misinformation. No elements of pseudoscience, anachronisms, or demonstrably false claims were identified, affirming the document's scientific credibility.", "misinformation_detected": "None. The document accurately reflects the scientific consensus and identifies genuine areas of ongoing research and discussion within the field of AI and biomedicine." }, 
"scientific_consensus_vs_fringe_claims": [ { "claim_id": 1, "claim_text": "Advancements have occurred in large language models.", "verdict_score": 1.0, "verdict": "Consensus: Strongly Supported. Numerous sources provide compelling evidence of significant advancements in LLM architecture (e.g., transformer networks, self-attention), efficiency, specialized capabilities, multimodal integration, and practical applications, such as real-time text generation and complex reasoning." }, { "claim_id": 2, "claim_text": "Artificial intelligence (AI) is undergoing a paradigm shift.", "verdict_score": 1.0, "verdict": "Consensus: Strongly Supported. High-trust expert sources explicitly identify the current transformation in AI as a 'fifth paradigm shift' and state that pre-trained models have unequivocally created a 'paradigm shift,' signifying a fundamental and revolutionary change in the field." }, { "claim_id": 3, "claim_text": "AI models
can be repurposed with minimal effort across various downstream tasks.", "verdict_score": 0.56, "verdict": "Mixed: Partially Supported, Partially Refuted. The ability to repurpose AI models across 'various downstream tasks' is well-supported. However, the assertion of 'minimal effort' is actively challenged by multiple sources detailing 'challenges faced by downstream developers' and 'seven key categories of challenges' in reusing pre-trained models. While techniques like prompt tuning and adapters aim to reduce effort, these challenges imply that 'minimal effort' is an oversimplification, especially when aiming for meaningful utility in complex domains." }, { "claim_id": 4, "claim_text": "Repurposing provides great promise in learning generally useful representations from biomedical corpora at scale.", "verdict_score": 1.0, "verdict": "Consensus: Strongly Supported. Directly aligned with the scientific consensus, multiple peer-reviewed sources explicitly state that repurposing AI models offers 'great promise in learning generally useful representations from biomedical corpora, at scale,' validating the claim's core assertion. Irrelevant evidence related to drug repurposing was appropriately discarded." }, { "claim_id": 5, "claim_text": "Learning useful representations from biomedical corpora would empower AI solutions in healthcare and biomedical research.", "verdict_score": 1.0, "verdict": "Consensus: Strongly Supported. Extensive evidence, including direct statements from scholarly reviews and research articles, unequivocally supports that learning useful representations from biomedical corpora would significantly empower AI solutions, improving patient care, accelerating research, and optimizing healthcare systems." }, { "claim_id": 6, "claim_text": "Our understanding of AI models' workings, failures, and capabilities remains underexplored.", "verdict_score": 1.0, "verdict": "Consensus: Strongly Supported. There is overwhelming scientific consensus, reflected across numerous high-trust sources, that AI models often operate as 'black boxes,' with their internal logic not fully understood. Phrases like 'Nobody knows how AI works,' 'fundamental gaps,' and the prevalence of 'glitches and fails' (e.g., hallucinations, model collapse) all underscore the underexplored nature of their workings, failures, and capabilities, driving active research into interpretability." }, { "claim_id": 7, "claim_text": "This lack of understanding is due to AI models' emergent properties.", "verdict_score": 0.8, "verdict": "Mixed: Predominantly Supported, but with Nuance. While several sources generally link the complexity and unpredictability of AI models (neural networks) to 'emergent properties' as a reason for difficulty in understanding, one direct piece of evidence critically argues that 'emergence' in LLMs is not an inherent property but rather a 'measurement error.' This highlights a genuine ongoing debate within the mainstream scientific community regarding the precise definition and causation of these observed phenomena, rather than a full refutation of their impact on understanding." }, { "claim_id": 8, "claim_text": "This review aims to identify topics ripe for future research.", "verdict_score": 0.5, "verdict": "Mixed: Partially Supported, Partially Refuted. One source supports that certain types of reviews (Qualitative Evidence Syntheses) can 'contribute to the design and further refinement of future interventions,' which aligns with identifying 'topics ripe for future research.' However, another source defines the aim of a systematic review as answering a specific research question, a distinct objective. While a review often informs future research, whether this is its primary stated aim varies among review types and is not universally accepted for all scientific reviews." }, { "claim_id": 9, "claim_text": "This review aims to identify technical and analytical challenges regarding interpretability.", "verdict_score": 1.0, "verdict": "Consensus: Strongly Supported. A key source for systematic reviews explicitly states its aim is the 'critical assessment of model interpretability and accuracy,' including identifying 'the most
significant limitations' (challenges). This aligns perfectly with the claim, further supported by the existence of the field of Explainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI) which directly addresses such challenges." }, { "claim_id": 10, "claim_text": "This review is expected to help researchers and practitioners better understand the landscape of language models in biomedicine.", "verdict_score": 1.0, "verdict": "Consensus: Strongly Supported. The stated objectives of the review—to summarize existing studies, identify future research topics, and examine various aspects of biomedical LLMs—directly support the expectation that it will enhance understanding for researchers and practitioners in the field. Irrelevant evidence pertaining to consumer or performance reviews was appropriately disregarded." } ], "deep_dive": { "specific_errors": [], "logical_fallacies": [], "anachronisms": [], "misinterpreted_data": [], "nuances_and_debates": [ { "claim_id": 3, "detail": "The claim posits that AI models can be repurposed with 'minimal effort' across various downstream tasks. While methods like prompt tuning and adapters aim to streamline this process, the scientific literature clearly indicates that significant 'challenges' (E2, E4, E7) exist in the reuse of pre-trained models for downstream development. These challenges often necessitate substantial effort to ensure efficacy and derive meaningful insights (E3), suggesting that 'minimal effort' is an oversimplification that needs to be qualified by the complexity of the task and the desired performance outcomes." }, { "claim_id": 7, "detail": "The attribution of a 'lack of understanding' to AI models' 'emergent properties' (E1, E2, E7, E8) is a recognized concept in the study of complex systems. However, there is a specific counter-argument in the literature (E3) which posits that what is perceived as 'emergence' in LLMs is not an inherent property but rather a 'measurement error.' This highlights an active and legitimate scientific debate within the mainstream community regarding the fundamental nature and true cause of these observed capabilities, rather than a universally settled scientific fact." }, { "claim_id": 8, "detail": "The claim states that 'this review aims to identify topics ripe for future research.' While a comprehensive review inherently informs future research directions, the primary stated aim of certain widely recognized review methodologies, such as a systematic review, is to answer a particular, focused research question (E2), rather than primarily identifying broad 'topics ripe for future research.' However, other review types (e.g., Qualitative Evidence Syntheses, E3) do explicitly contribute to designing and refining future interventions, which implies identifying such topics. The phrasing in the original text indicates an intentional aim, reflecting one valid objective for a scientific review." } ] }, "verdict": { "final_judgment": "The original text, as assessed by FailSafe, represents a highly credible and accurate scientific narrative regarding Large Language Models in biomedicine. Its claims are well-supported by a breadth of peer-reviewed and high-trust scientific evidence. The identified nuances pertaining to 'minimal effort' and the nature of 'emergent properties' reflect active and legitimate scientific discussions, not flaws in the overall scientific premise. The report finds no evidence of misinformation, logical impossibilities, or demonstrably false statements. This document is a valuable and trustworthy scientific contribution." } } 
có 2 claim mà Hệ thống này nhấn mạnh là: 
Claim #3: AI models can be repurposed with minimal effort across various downstream tasks.
Yes (The statement makes a testable claim about the capability and effort involved in applying AI models, verifiable through empirical data.) 
Refutes 4 
Supports 5 
Irrelevant 0 
Link for checking: researchgate.net 
Evidence: However, the challenges faced by downstream developers in reusing PTMs in software systems are less explored. To bridge this knowledge gap, we ... 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence highlights 'challenges faced by downstream developers in reusing PTMs', directly contradicting the 'minimal effort' aspect of the claim. If challenges exist, the effort is likely not minimal. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This high-trust evidence highlights 'challenges faced by downstream developers in reusing PTMs,' which 
directly contradicts the 'minimal effort' aspect of the claim. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: The explicit mention of 'challenges faced by downstream developers in reusing PTMs' directly contradicts the claim of 'minimal effort'. Challenges signify substantial, not minimal, effort. Link for checking: pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov 
Evidence: [FULL CONTENT EXTRACTED] Abstract The success of foundation models such as ChatGPT and AlphaFold has spurred significant interest in building similar models for electronic medical records (EMRs) to improve patient care and hospital operations. However, recent hype has obscured critical gaps in our understanding of these models’ capabilities. In this narrative 
review, we examine 84 foundation models trained on non-imaging EMR data (i.e., clinical text and/or structured data) and create a taxonomy delineating their architectures, training data, and potential use cases. We find that most models are trained on small, narrowly-scoped clinical datasets (e.g., MIMIC-III) or broad, public biomedical corpora (e.g., PubMed) and are evaluated on tasks that do not provide meaningful insights on their usefulness to health systems. Considering these findings, we propose an improved evaluation framework for measuring the benefits of clinical foundation models that is more closely grounded to metrics that matter in healthcare. Subject terms: Machine learning, Computational platforms and environments, Predictive medicine, Data mining, Statistical methods Introduction Foundation models (FMs) are machine learning models capable of performing many different tasks after being trained on large, typically unlabeled datasets1. FMs represent a paradigm shift in how machine learning (ML) models are developed—rather than developing a bespoke model for each specific use case (as was done traditionally), a single FM can instead be reused across a broad range of downstream tasks with minimal adaptation or retraining needed per task. FMs have received significant attention given their impressive range of capabilities across multiple domains, from text generation2 and video editing3 to protein folding4 and robotics5. One of the most popular FMs has been OpenAI’s ChatGPT, which surpassed 100 million users within two months of release6. ChatGPT is a large language model (LLM), a type of FM which ingests text and outputs text in response. Though ChatGPT was trained to simply predict the next word in a sentence—it is basically an advanced autocomplete— incredible capabilities “emerged” from
this training setup which allow the model to perform a wide variety of complex tasks involving language7. Physicians were quick to apply the model to pass medical licensing exams8–11, simplify radiology reports12, and write research articles13. In addition to text, FMs built on structured EMR data have shown the ability to predict the risk of 30-day readmission14, select future treatments15, and diagnose rare diseases16. The breakneck progress of AI over the past year has made it difficult for healthcare technology professionals and decision-makers to accurately assess the strengths and limitations of these innovations for clinical applications. Beyond short demos being shared on social media, there is little systematic examination of what the best use cases for production-grade clinical FMs are, or how healthcare organ... [Content Truncated] 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence notes that many models are trained on 'narrowly-scoped clinical datasets' and are evaluated on tasks that 'do not provide meaningful insights', which refutes the idea that they can be repurposed effectively across 'various downstream tasks' with 'minimal effort' to achieve meaningful utility. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This high-trust evidence details 'critical gaps in our understanding' and issues with models being 'trained on small, narrowly-scoped clinical datasets' and evaluated on tasks that 'do not provide meaningful insights.' These issues imply significant effort is required for effective and meaningful repurposing, directly refuting the 'minimal effort' aspect of the claim. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence indicates that even after repurposing, many clinical foundation models are evaluated on tasks that 'do not provide meaningful insights on their usefulness'. This suggests that the effort expended is not minimal if it fails to yield meaningful and useful outcomes across relevant downstream tasks. 
Link for checking: arxiv.org 
Evidence: Our study identifies seven key categories of challenges that downstream developers face in reusing PTMs, such as model usage, model performance, ... 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence explicitly identifies 'seven key categories of challenges that downstream developers face in reusing PTMs', which directly refutes the 'minimal effort' component of the claim. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This evidence identifies 'seven key categories of challenges that downstream developers face in reusing PTMs,' directly indicating that repurposing often requires significant effort, thus refuting the 'minimal effort' aspect of the claim. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: The identification of 'seven key categories of challenges' clearly refutes the notion of 'minimal effort' in reusing pre-trained models. These challenges imply significant hurdles, not ease. 
Link for checking: arxiv.org 
Evidence: Our study identifies seven key categories of challenges that downstream developers face in reusing PTMs, such as model usage, model performance, and output ... 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence, similar to E4, identifies 'seven key categories of challenges' in reusing PTMs, directly contradicting the 'minimal effort' aspect of the claim. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This evidence identifies 'seven key categories of challenges that
downstream developers face in reusing PTMs,' directly indicating that repurposing often requires significant effort, thus refuting the 'minimal effort' aspect of the claim. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: Identical to E4, this evidence identifies 'seven key categories of challenges' in reusing PTMs, which directly contradicts the claim that repurposing requires 'minimal effort'. 
Link for checking: arxiv.org 
Evidence: This pre-trained knowledge can be leveraged for various downstream tasks without the need for retraining the model from scratch, which can be both ... 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence indicates that pre-trained knowledge can be leveraged for various downstream tasks without retraining from scratch, which implies a reduced, hence 'minimal', effort for repurposing. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This evidence states that pre-trained knowledge can be leveraged for various downstream tasks without retraining the model from scratch, directly supporting the claim that AI models can be repurposed with minimal effort. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: While this evidence states that models can be leveraged without retraining from scratch, which implies reduced effort, it does not confirm 'minimal effort' across various tasks. The reduction from 'scratch' is not necessarily 'minimal' for all repurposing efforts. 
Link for checking: itic.org 
Evidence: Because foundation models can be used for myriads of downstream tasks, foreseeing potential risks aris- ing from every use may not be possible. 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence states that foundation models 'can be used for myriads of downstream tasks', directly supporting the 'across various downstream tasks' part of the claim. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This high-trust evidence states that 'foundation models can be used for myriads of downstream tasks,' directly supporting the part of the claim that models can be repurposed across various tasks. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence states that foundation models 'can be used for myriads of downstream tasks', directly supporting the 'repurposed across various downstream tasks' part of the claim. It does not, however, address the 'minimal effort' aspect. 
Link for checking: aipolicy.substack.com 
Evidence: ... models are trained. Generally speaking, upstream components have the key characteristic that they can be repurposed in many different ways. 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence affirms that upstream components 'can be repurposed in many different ways', which directly supports the 'across various downstream tasks' aspect of the claim. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This evidence states that 'upstream components have the key characteristic that they can be repurposed in many different ways,' supporting the ability to repurpose models for various tasks. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence confirms that models 'can be repurposed in many different ways', supporting the breadth of application. However, it provides no information on the 'minimal effort' required for such repurposing. 
Link for checking: moveworks.com
Evidence: Adapters are an advanced method for making pre-trained AI models adaptable to new tasks without complete retraining. 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence describes 'adapters' as a method to make models adaptable to new tasks 'without complete retraining', which supports both the repurposing and the 'minimal effort' (by reducing training load) components of the claim. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This evidence describes 'Adapters' as a method for making models adaptable 'without complete retraining,' which implies a reduced, or minimal, effort for repurposing. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence highlights 'Adapters' as a method for making models 'adaptable to new tasks without complete retraining'. This signifies a reduction in effort compared to full retraining, thereby supporting the 'minimal effort' aspect for specific techniques. 
Link for checking: aithority.com 
Evidence: [FULL CONTENT EXTRACTED] An Overview of How Prompt Tuning Is Leveraging Models to Perform Downstream Tasks Foundation models have been instrumental in transforming the landscape of AI enterprise applications, and their rapid increase is setting the base for the next wave. Foundations models are large artificial models that are pre-trained (in most cases through self-supervising learning) on ridiculously huge amounts of unlabeled data. And because of this, these models can be customized for different things ranging from fraud detection in financial documents to analysis of legal contracts. Fine-tuning was considered the ideal solution to redeploy a pre-trained model to perform specialized tasks. You were used to gathering and labeling examples of the target task to fine-tune the model instead of training a whole new one from the scratch. But now, a simpler, viable, and energy-efficient solution has emerged – prompt tuning. What is Prompt Tuning? Let’s start from the basics – what is prompt tuning? Prompt tuning is the process of feeding front-end prompts into your AI model in the context of a specific task. These prompts could be anything – just some extra words introduced by a human or AI-generated number introduced in the embedding layers. Prompt tuning is used to guide a model toward a particular prediction. With prompt tuning, organizations with limited data can tailor a model to perform a slick task while eliminating the requirement to update the model billions or weights. Recommended: Virtual Cards for Your Business – How They’re Beneficial For Security Did you know that when you are redeploying an AI model minus any retraining, you can save thousands by eliminating computing as well as energy by at least 1000 times? IBM’s David Cox, head of Exploratory AI Research and co-director of the MIT-IBM Watson AI Lab explained that with the help of prompt-tuning, you can build a powerful model to suit specific needs. Besides, you also get a chance to explore and experiment faster. The journey of prompt-tuning began with large language models and gradually expanded to foundation models like transformers that take care of sequential data types, including audio and video. Prompts can mean a number of things like streams of speech, a still image or video, or snippets of text. Prompt for Specialized Tasks Way before prompt-tuning became a reality, there was another term called prompt engineering which meant prompts that were designed by hand. Let’s consider the example of a language model for translation tasks. You feed details including information about the target task. You can say – “Translate English to French.” When you prompt “cheese”, the model then delivers its prediction – “fromage.” This manual prompt primes the model to retrieve from its memory banks other words in French. If the task is difficult enough, dozens of prompts might be needed. - Prompt engineering came into force when
OpenAi’s ambitious GPT (Generative Pretrained Transformer), a language model almost 10 t... [Content Truncated] 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence states that models 'can be customized for different things' (supporting 'various downstream tasks') and introduces 'prompt tuning' as a 'simpler, viable, and energy-efficient solution', directly supporting the 'minimal effort' aspect of the claim. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This high-trust evidence directly describes prompt tuning as a 'simpler, viable, and energy-efficient solution' for redeploying pre-trained models for specialized tasks, strongly supporting the 'minimal effort' aspect of the claim. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence introduces 'prompt tuning' as a 'simpler, viable, and energy-efficient solution' for redeploying models. This directly supports the 'minimal effort' aspect by offering an easier alternative to previous methods like fine-tuning. 
và 
Claim #8: This review aims to identify topics ripe for future research. 
Yes (The statement describes the explicit objective or purpose of a document, which can be verified by examining the document itself.) 
Refutes 1 
Supports 1 
Irrelevant 1 
Link for checking: sciencedirect.com 
Evidence: by H Snyder · 2019 · Cited by 16952 — The aim of a systematic review is to identify all empirical evidence that fits the pre-specified inclusion criteria to answer a particular research question or ... 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: Evidence E2 specifies that the aim of a systematic review is to identify existing empirical evidence to answer a particular research question. This aim is distinct from the claim's assertion that "this review aims to identify topics ripe for future research," which 
focuses on generating new areas rather than synthesizing existing knowledge for a specific question. Therefore, E2 refutes the claim's stated aim. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This evidence defines the aim of a systematic review as identifying empirical evidence to answer a research question. While related to research, it does not specifically address 'identifying topics ripe for future research' as stated in the claim. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence states that the aim of a systematic review is to 'identify all empirical evidence... to answer a particular research question.' This is a distinct aim from identifying 'topics ripe for future research.' While a review might indirectly inform future research, this evidence explicitly states a different, more focused primary aim for systematic reviews, thereby refuting the claim's stated aim. 
Link for checking: pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov 
Evidence: [FULL CONTENT EXTRACTED] Abstract Background Qualitative systematic reviews or qualitative evidence syntheses (QES) are increasingly recognised as a way to enhance the value of systematic reviews (SRs) of clinical trials. They can explain the mechanisms by which interventions, evaluated within trials, might achieve their effect. They can investigate differences
in effects between different population groups. They can identify which outcomes are most important to patients, carers, health professionals and other stakeholders. QES can explore the impact of acceptance, feasibility, meaningfulness and implementation-related factors within a real world setting and thus contribute to the design and further refinement of future interventions. To produce valid, reliable and meaningful QES requires systematic identification of relevant qualitative evidence. Although the methodologies of QES, including methods for information retrieval, are well-documented, little empirical evidence exists to inform their conduct and reporting. Methods This structured methodological overview examines papers on searching for qualitative research identified from the Cochrane Qualitative and Implementation Methods Group Methodology Register and from citation searches of 15 key papers. Results A single reviewer reviewed 1299 references. Papers reporting methodological guidance, use of innovative methodologies or empirical studies of retrieval methods were categorised under eight topical headings: overviews and methodological guidance, sampling, sources, structured questions, search procedures, search strategies and filters, supplementary strategies and standards. Conclusions This structured overview presents a contemporaneous view of information retrieval for qualitative research and identifies a future research agenda. This review concludes that poor empirical evidence underpins current information practice in information retrieval of qualitative research. A trend towards improved transparency of search methods and further evaluation of key search procedures offers the prospect of rapid development of search methods. Keywords: Qualitative research, Systematic reviews, Literature searching Background The contribution of qualitative evidence to health care decision-making is increasingly acknowledged. Qualitative evidence syntheses (QES) now occupy an important role within the activities of international collaborations, such as the Cochrane Collaboration [1], as part of the guidance production processes of national organisations such as the UK National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) and the US Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) and as a genuine academic endeavour funded by private, public and charitable funding bodies. Increasingly, QES are viewed as a putative mechanism by which the systematic review “catechism” can be advanced from “what works” to “what happens” [2]. Milestones for the development of QES methodology are well-documented [3]. They include the publicat... [Content Truncated] 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: Evidence E3 explicitly states that Qualitative Evidence Syntheses (QES), a type of review, can "contribute to the design and further refinement of future interventions." This function inherently involves identifying areas and questions that are "ripe for future research" to inform the development and improvement of new interventions, directly supporting the claim. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This evidence states that Qualitative Evidence Syntheses (QES) 'contribute to the design and further refinement of future interventions'. This directly supports the idea of identifying areas or 'topics ripe for future research' by informing future work. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: The evidence explains that Qualitative Systematic Reviews (QES) can 'contribute to the design and further refinement of future interventions.' This directly implies the identification of areas or 'topics ripe' for subsequent research and development, thus supporting the essence of the claim. 
Link for checking: tandfonline.com
Evidence: RIPE aims to publish two Special Issues per year, chosen on a competitive basis. Full proposals should be submitted by either the March 30th or September 30th ... Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: Evidence E1 describes the submission and publication process for special issues by "RIPE," a journal or publication body. It does not state that the aim of "this review" is to identify topics ripe for future research; rather, it pertains to the mechanics of publishing submitted proposals. Thus, it is irrelevant to the claim's stated aim. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This evidence describes how RIPE publishes special issues and accepts proposals, which implicitly involves identifying 'topics ripe for future research'. This directly aligns with the claim's aim. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: The evidence discusses the publication aims of 'RIPE' (likely a journal or initiative), not the specific aim of 'this review' to identify topics for future research. It is an irrelevant piece of information to the claim. 
Những claim khác hệ thống không nhấn mạnh: 
Claim #1: Advancements have occurred in large language models. 
Yes (The statement makes a factual claim about observable progress, which can be evidenced through research and development.) 
Refutes 0 
Supports 6 
Irrelevant 0 
Link for checking: nature.com 
Evidence: Large language models (LLMs) are increasingly shaping the way we live and work. ... Without a doubt, the transformer architecture has been central ... 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence indicates that LLMs are increasingly shaping life and work, and highlights the central role of transformer architecture, which directly supports the claim of advancements. || [Researcher]: Researcher: Evidence states that LLMs are "increasingly shaping the way we live and work" and highlights the centrality of the transformer architecture, directly indicating advancements. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence directly states that LLMs are 'increasingly shaping the way we live and work' and highlights the centrality of the transformer architecture. This clearly indicates advancements have occurred. 
Link for checking: ibm.com 
Evidence: [FULL CONTENT EXTRACTED] The model passes the tokens through a transformer network. Transformer models, introduced in 2017, are useful due to their self-attention mechanism, which allows them to “pay attention to” different tokens at different moments. This technique is the centerpiece of the transformer and its prime innovation. Self-attention is useful in part because it allows the AI model to calculate the relationships and dependencies between tokens, especially ones that are distant from one another in the text. Transformer architectures also allow for parallelization, making the process much more efficient than previous methods. These qualities allowed LLMs to handle unprecedentedly large datasets. Once text is split into tokens, each token is mapped to a vector of numbers called an embedding. Neural networks consists of layers of artificial neurons, where each neuron performs a mathematical operation.
Transformers consist of many of these layers, and at each, the embeddings are slightly adjusted, becoming richer contextual representations from layer to layer. The goal in this process is for the model to learn semantic associations between words, so that words like “bark” and “dog” appear closer together in vector space in an essay about dogs than “bark” and “tree” would, based on the surrounding dog-related words in the essay. Transformers also add positional encodings, which give each token information about its place in the sequence. To compute attention, each embedding is projected into three distinct vectors using learned weight matrices: a query, a key, and a value. The query represents what a given token is “seeking,” the key represents the information that each token contains, and the value “returns” the information from each key vector, scaled by its respective attention weight. Alignment scores are then computed as the similarity between queries and keys. These scores, once normalized into attention weights, determine how much of each value vector flows into the representation of the current token. This process allows the model to flexibly focus on relevant context while ignoring less important tokens (like “tree”). Self-attention thus creates “weighted” connections between all tokens more efficiently than earlier architectures could. The model assigns weights to each relationship between the tokens. LLMs can have billions or trillions of these weights, which are one type of LLM parameter, the internal configuration variables of a machine learning model that control how it processes data and makes predictions. The number of parameters refers to how many of these variables exist in a model, with some LLMs containing billions of parameters. So-called small language models are smaller in scale and scope with comparatively few parameters, making them suitable for deployment on smaller devices or in resource-constrained environments. During training, the model makes predictions across millions of examples drawn from its training data, and a loss function quant... [Content Truncated] 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence explicitly details innovations like the self-attention mechanism and parallelization introduced in transformer models (2017), which allowed LLMs to handle unprecedentedly large datasets and operate more efficiently, directly supporting the claim of advancements. || [Researcher]: Researcher: Evidence details the introduction of the transformer network in 2017, its self-attention mechanism, and parallelization, which allowed LLMs to handle "unprecedentedly large datasets." These are specific technological advancements. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence details key technological innovations like the transformer network, self-attention, and parallelization, which enabled LLMs to handle 'unprecedentedly large datasets' and improve efficiency. These are concrete advancements. 
Link for checking: prajnaaiwisdom.medium.com 
Evidence: On one hand, we are witnessing unprecedented advances in efficiency, specialization, multimodal integration, and autonomous agent capabilities. Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence directly states that "unprecedented advances in efficiency, specialization, multimodal integration, and autonomous agent capabilities" are being witnessed, which directly supports the claim of advancements in large language models. || [Researcher]: Researcher: Evidence explicitly states, "we are witnessing unprecedented advances in efficiency, specialization, multimodal integration, and autonomous agent capabilities," directly confirming the claim. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence explicitly uses the term 'unprecedented advances' and lists specific areas such as efficiency, specialization,
multimodal integration, and autonomous agent capabilities. This is direct and strong support for the claim. 
Link for checking: en.wikipedia.org 
Evidence: [FULL CONTENT EXTRACTED] Large language model A large language model (LLM) is a language model trained with self-supervised machine learning on a vast amount of text, designed for natural language processing tasks, especially language generation.[1][2] The largest and most capable LLMs are generative pre-trained transformers (GPTs) and provide the core capabilities of modern chatbots. LLMs can be fine-tuned for specific tasks or guided by prompt engineering.[3] These models acquire predictive power regarding syntax, semantics, and ontologies[4] inherent in human language corpora, but they also inherit inaccuracies and biases present in the data they are trained on.[5] They consist of billions to trillions of parameters and operate as general-purpose sequence models, generating, summarizing, translating, and reasoning over text. LLMs represent a significant new technology in their ability to generalize across tasks with minimal task-specific supervision, enabling capabilities like conversational agents, code generation, knowledge retrieval, and automated reasoning that previously required bespoke systems.[6] LLMs evolved from earlier statistical and recurrent neural network approaches to language modeling. The transformer architecture, introduced in 2017, replaced recurrence with self-attention, allowing efficient parallelization, longer context handling, and scalable training on unprecedented data volumes.[7] This innovation enabled models like GPT, BERT, and their successors, which demonstrated emergent behaviors at scale, such as few-shot learning and compositional reasoning.[8] Reinforcement learning, particularly policy gradient algorithms, has been adapted to fine-tune LLMs for desired behaviors beyond raw next-token prediction.[9] Reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) applies these methods to optimize a policy, the LLM's output distribution, against reward signals derived from human or automated preference judgments.[10] This has been critical for aligning model outputs with user expectations, improving factuality, reducing harmful responses, and enhancing task performance. Benchmark evaluations for LLMs have evolved from narrow linguistic assessments toward comprehensive, multi-task evaluations measuring reasoning, factual accuracy, alignment, and safety.[11][12] Hill climbing, iteratively optimizing models against benchmarks, has emerged as a dominant strategy, producing rapid incremental performance gains but raising concerns of overfitting to benchmarks rather than achieving genuine generalization or robust capability improvements.[13] History [edit]Before the emergence of transformer-based models in 2017, some language models were considered large relative to the computational and data constraints of their time. In the early 1990s, IBM's statistical models pioneered word alignment techniques for machine translation, laying the groundwork for corpus-based language modeling. In 2001, a smoothed n-gram model, such as those employing Kneser–Ney smoothi... [Content Truncated] 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence describes LLMs as a "significant new technology" with advanced capabilities such as generating, summarizing, translating, and reasoning over text, and the ability to generalize across tasks, all of which confirm advancements. || [Researcher]: Researcher: Evidence describes LLMs as a "significant new technology" with capabilities like generalizing across tasks, powering modern chatbots, and acquiring predictive power, all of which are advancements. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence
describes LLMs as a 'significant new technology' that has acquired 'predictive power regarding syntax, semantics, and ontologies' and can 'generalize across tasks with minimal task-specific supervision,' which are clear indicators of functional advancements. 
Link for checking: technologyreview.com 
Evidence: [FULL CONTENT EXTRACTED] Large language models can do jaw-dropping things. But nobody knows exactly why. And that's a problem. Figuring it out is one of the biggest scientific puzzles of our time and a crucial step towards controlling more powerful future models. Two years ago, Yuri Burda and Harri Edwards, researchers at the San Francisco–based firm OpenAI, were trying to find out what it would take to get a language model to do basic arithmetic. They wanted to know how many examples of adding up two numbers the model needed to see before it was able to add up any two numbers they gave it. At first, things didn’t go too well. The models memorized the sums they saw but failed to solve new ones. By accident, Burda and Edwards left some of their experiments running far longer than they meant to—days rather than hours. The models were shown the example sums over and over again, way past the point when the researchers would otherwise have called it quits. But when the pair at last came back, they were surprised to find that the experiments had worked. They’d trained a language model to add two numbers—it had just taken a lot more time than anybody thought it should. Curious about what was going on, Burda and Edwards teamed up with colleagues to study the phenomenon. They found that in certain cases, models could fail to learn a task and then all of a sudden just get it, as if a lightbulb had switched on. This wasn’t how deep learning was supposed to work. They called the behavior grokking. “It’s really interesting,” says Hattie Zhou, an AI researcher at the University of Montreal and Apple Machine Learning Research, who wasn’t involved in the work. “Can we ever be confident that models have stopped learning? Because maybe we just haven’t trained for long enough.” The weird behavior has captured the imagination of the wider research community. “Lots of people have opinions,” says Lauro Langosco at the University of Cambridge, UK. “But I don’t think there’s a consensus about what exactly is going on.” Grokking is just one of several odd phenomena that have AI researchers scratching their heads. The largest models, and large language models in particular, seem to behave in ways textbook math says they shouldn’t. This highlights a remarkable fact about deep learning, the fundamental technology behind today’s AI boom: for all its runaway success, nobody knows exactly how—or why—it works. “Obviously, we’re not completely ignorant,” says Mikhail Belkin, a computer scientist at the University of California, San Diego. “But our theoretical analysis is so far off what these models can do. Like, why can they learn language? I think this is very mysterious.” The biggest models are now so complex that researchers are studying them as if they were strange natural phenomena, carrying out experiments and trying to explain the results. Many of those observations fly in the face of classical statistics, which had provided our best set of explanations for how predictive models behave. So what,... [Content Truncated] 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence states that "Large language models can do jaw-dropping things" and describes an accidental discovery that led to an improvement in their arithmetic capabilities, indicating progress and advancements. || [Researcher]: Researcher: Evidence mentions that "Large language models can do jaw-dropping things" and discusses research into their capabilities, implicitly confirming that significant advancements have
occurred, even if their mechanisms are still being explored. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: While expressing a lack of full understanding, the statement 'Large language models can do jaw-dropping things' and the description of an accidental discovery leading to arithmetic abilities demonstrate a significant increase in their capabilities, thus supporting the claim of advancements. 
Link for checking: pixelplex.io 
Evidence: Large language models' ability to generate text in real-time has made them invaluable in enhancing search engines, powering virtual assistants, ... 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence points to LLMs' ability to generate text in real-time and their invaluable application in enhancing search engines and virtual assistants, which demonstrates advanced capabilities and utility. || [Researcher]: Researcher: Evidence highlights LLMs' ability to "generate text in real-time" and their "invaluable" role in enhancing search engines and powering virtual assistants, demonstrating practical advancements and increased utility. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence points to the practical impact of LLMs, stating their 'ability to generate text in real-time has made them invaluable in enhancing search engines, powering virtual assistants.' This real-world application and utility are direct results of advancements. 
Claim #2: Artificial intelligence (AI) is undergoing a paradigm shift. 
Yes (The statement presents a verifiable claim about the current state and significant transformation of a field, which can be debated and supported with evidence.) 
Refutes 0 
Supports 3 
Irrelevant 1 
Link for checking: im.williamblair.com 
Evidence: [FULL CONTENT EXTRACTED] September 24, 2024 | U.S. Growth and Core Equity Artificial Intelligence: The Fifth Paradigm Shift In the ever-evolving landscape of technology, paradigm shifts represent technological innovation that can reshape industries over time. Over the past 60 years, we’ve witnessed four distinct technological revolutions. From the dawn of mainframe computers in the 1960s and the rise of personal computers in the 1980s, to the internet boom of the mid-90s and the mobility era of the late 2000s, each shift has led to changes over time. Now, we stand on the brink of a fifth paradigm shift—artificial intelligence (AI). Our U.S. growth and core equity team has been monitoring the ways in which AI is beginning to influence various sectors and industries, particularly within the large-cap technology and consumer spaces. Productivity Redefined A hallmark of transformative changes, such as those that could be brought about by AI, is the enhancement of automation, efficiency, and productivity, says Jim Golan, CFA, partner, a portfolio manager on our Large Cap Growth strategy. Tasks like drafting emails or developing presentations are poised for automation, thereby freeing up time for more strategic activities. AI technology should also help to improve voice tools, including Siri and Google Assistant, making them capable of handling more complex tasks such as rebooking flights and arranging travel accommodations. In industries such as
healthcare, AI could help enhance drug discovery and design by providing predictive analytics that can accelerate decision-making, reduce costs, and improve treatment effectiveness. In addition, the advertising industry is undergoing change, with traditional media, such as print advertising and radio, being overtaken by digital platforms that AI could help to amplify. Several large-cap companies are beginning to leverage AI to achieve higher conversion rates for ads, resulting in better returns on ad spend. Several large-cap companies are beginning to leverage AI to achieve higher conversion rates for ads, resulting in better returns on ad spend. Consumer Goods: Streamlining the Supply Chain Nancy Aversa, CFA, partner, a research analyst focusing on the consumer sector, believes AI could accelerate product time-to-market, optimizing supply chains by helping source raw materials, streamlining manufacturing, and refining logistics to ensure timely delivery to customers. AI also has the potential to align inventory levels with consumer demand. This would ensure that products are available where and when they are needed, whether in stores or through e-commerce channels. In addition, AI’s potential impact on supply-chain efficiency presents a sizable revenue and profitability opportunity for many large-cap consumer companies. Today, consumer companies may take upwards of two years to bring certain products to market, which makes predicting trends challenging. AI could help analyze diverse data sources, such as social media and fashion blog... [Content Truncated] Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: The evidence explicitly identifies Artificial Intelligence as "The Fifth Paradigm Shift," directly affirming the claim that AI is undergoing a paradigm shift. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This high-trust evidence from 'U.S. Growth and Core Equity' explicitly states, 'Now, we stand on the brink of a fifth paradigm shift—artificial intelligence (AI).' This is expert testimony directly affirming the claim that AI is undergoing a paradigm shift. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence explicitly states, "Now, we stand on the brink of a fifth paradigm shift—artificial intelligence (AI)," categorizing AI's current impact as a fundamental technological revolution akin to past paradigm shifts. This directly supports the claim. 
Link for checking: cacm.acm.org 
Evidence: This new capability provided by pre-trained models has created a paradigm shift in AI, transforming it from an application to a general-purpose ... 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: The evidence states that "new capability provided by pre-trained models has created a paradigm shift in AI," directly supporting the claim. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This high-trust evidence explicitly states that 'pre-trained models has created a paradigm shift in AI.' This is expert testimony directly supporting the claim. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: The evidence clearly states that "pre-trained models has created a paradigm shift in AI," indicating a transformative change in its nature and application. This directly confirms the claim. 
Link for checking: cadmusjournal.org 
Evidence: [FULL CONTENT EXTRACTED] Hello Visitor! Log In AI as the Catalyst of the New Paradigm of Science? ARTICLE | July 10, 2025 | BY Pavel Luksha Author(s) Pavel Luksha Abstract The rapid advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AI) is reshaping the landscape of scientific inquiry. This article examines the challenges confronting modern science, including knowledge fragmentation, diminishing returns of current paradigms, and the disconnect between science and society. It explores how AI offers solutions enhancing collaboration and
integrating knowledge—as well as considers the possible “darker side” of using AI in research. However, the advent of AI in science not only enhances scientific research but also redefines the role of human researchers and fosters a new paradigm of human understanding. By embracing these transformations, a more cohesive and responsive scientific enterprise can emerge. The saddest aspect of life right now is that science gathers knowledge faster than society gathers wisdom. – Isaac Asimov 1. The Evolution of Science: Where Are We Now? The modern institution of science is largely a product of the Western Industrial Age. While systemic studies of nature and society have existed for millennia—leading to the astonishing achievements of Ancient Egypt, China, and the Islamic Golden Age—the concept of creating a specialized social institution dedicated solely to the accumulation of knowledge for human purposes is a Western European innovation. Beginning in the 17th century, intentional research conducted in universities across Europe helped advance the military and manufacturing superiority of European states and fueled colonial expansion. Over the next two centuries, science became a government-supported activity that elevated national prestige and produced new tools, materials, and medicines. World War I, and even more so World War II, were massively shaped by scientific minds, as scientifically engineered mechanisms, explosives, and chemical agents dominated the battlefield—culminating in the detonation of atomic bombs over Hiroshima and Nagasaki, weapons of unprecedented destructive potential crafted through scientific endeavor (Doel & Harper 2023). During the same period, however, science also increasingly started to play a role in creating knowledge for economic innovation. High-tech companies like Bell Labs, Bayer, and IBM became synonymous with cutting-edge research and development (R&D), while universities accumulated capacity for applied research that led to a multitude of inventions becoming new commercial enterprises. Today’s scientific research is strongly coupled with economic development and is seen as a primary source of national economic competitiveness—and the ongoing research “race” between the US and China in AI, brain research, biotechnology, and energy technologies underscores this trend (Atkinson & Foote 2019). However, the future of science as a social institution is clouded by mounting systemic challenges. Three critical and interconn... [Content Truncated] 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: The evidence directly discusses "AI as the Catalyst of the New Paradigm of Science?" and how it "fosters a new paradigm of human understanding," providing direct support for the claim that AI is ushering in a paradigm shift. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This high-trust article discusses how 'The rapid advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AI) is reshaping the landscape of scientific inquiry' and explores how AI 'fosters a new paradigm of human understanding.' While the title contains a question mark, the content, categorized as expert testimony and analysis, clearly describes AI as a catalyst for a 'new paradigm' within science, thus supporting the broader claim of a paradigm shift. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence posits "AI as the Catalyst of the New Paradigm of Science?" and further states that AI "fosters a new paradigm of human understanding." This directly supports the idea that AI is initiating a paradigm shift. 
Claim #4: Repurposing provides great promise in learning generally useful representations from biomedical corpora at scale. 
Yes (The statement describes a potential benefit or prospect of a technique, which can be assessed and debated based on scientific evidence and expert opinion.)
Refutes 0 
Supports 5 
Irrelevant 4 
Link for checking: pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov 
Evidence: [FULL CONTENT EXTRACTED] Summary With advancements in large language models, artificial intelligence (AI) is undergoing a paradigm shift where AI models can be repurposed with minimal effort across various downstream tasks. This provides great promise in learning generally useful representations from biomedical corpora, at scale, which would empower AI solutions in healthcare and biomedical research. Nonetheless, our understanding of how they work, when they fail, and what they are capable of remains underexplored due to their emergent properties. Consequently, there is a need to comprehensively examine the use of language models in biomedicine. This review aims to summarize existing studies of language models in biomedicine and identify topics ripe for future research, along with the technical and analytical challenges w.r.t. interpretability. We expect this review to help researchers and practitioners better understand the landscape of language models in biomedicine and what methods are available to enhance the interpretability of their models. Subject areas: Health sciences, Natural sciences, Computer science Graphical abstract Health sciences; Natural sciences; Computer science Introduction Recent progress made in large language models, i.e., GPT,1 BERT,2 and ChatGPT, presents a chance to rethink artificial intelligence (AI) systems, with language as a means to facilitate interaction between humans and AI. Generally, a language model is a probability distribution over a sequence of word tokens, with and being a vocabulary, as shown in Figure 2A. But why would you want to compute such a probability of a word sequence? In the application scenario, the goal is to produce word sequences as output. For example, the goal of text summarization is to convert long texts into concise summaries. By computing the probability distribution over utterances, the word sequence can be generated by sampling tokens from this learned probability distribution. A simple approach to computing the probability distribution of word sequence is to use statistical techniques, such as relative frequency counts. However, it is very data-intensive and suffers from high variance: even grammatical sentences will have a zero probability if they have not occurred in the training data. An alternative way is to compute the probability in the product format. N-gram models make a crucial simplifying approximation by conditioning on only the last words. However, those traditional probabilistic language models require smoothing techniques to avoid the situation when there is a rare or unseen word. Besides, these models are computationally intensive for large histories of text and cannot capture the long-range dependencies in language. Neural language models use neural networks or deep neural networks to model languages, such as feedforward neural networks, recurrent neural networks, and transformer neural networks. Neural language models have significant advantages over traditional probabilistic language mod... [Content Truncated] 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence directly states that AI models can be repurposed to learn generally useful representations from biomedical corpora at scale, which provides great promise. This perfectly aligns with and supports the claim. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This high-trust summary directly states that repurposing AI models 'provides great promise in learning generally useful representations from biomedical corpora, at scale,' which precisely
matches the claim. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence directly supports the claim by stating that AI models can be repurposed to learn generally useful representations from biomedical corpora at scale, indicating great promise. This aligns perfectly with the claim's assertion. 
Link for checking: nature.com 
Evidence: by K Singhal · 2023 · Cited by 3655 — These expressive and interactive models offer great promise in their ability to learn generally useful representations from the knowledge ... Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence indicates that expressive models offer 'great promise in their ability to learn generally useful representations.' While not explicitly mentioning 'repurposing' in the snippet, it strongly supports the core aspect of the claim regarding the promise of learning useful representations. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This highly cited paper indicates that expressive models 'offer great promise in their ability to learn generally useful representations,' which aligns with the premise of the claim regarding learning useful representations through repurposing. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: The evidence explicitly mentions that 'expressive and interactive models offer great promise in their ability to learn generally useful representations'. Given the context of the claim, this refers to repurposed models in biomedicine, thus supporting the claim. 
Link for checking: researchgate.net 
Evidence: ... repurposed with minimal effort across various downstream tasks. This provides great promise in learning generally useful representations from biomedical corpora ... Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence directly matches the claim, stating that 'repurposed' models provide 'great promise in learning generally useful representations from biomedical corpora.' || [Researcher]: Researcher: This evidence explicitly states that models 'repurposed with minimal effort across various downstream tasks' provide 'great promise in learning generally useful representations from biomedical corpora,' directly confirming the claim. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This text directly echoes the claim, stating that 'repurposed with minimal effort across various downstream tasks. This provides great promise in learning generally useful representations from biomedical corpora'. This is a clear and direct support. 
Link for checking: biorxiv.org 
Evidence: ... learning, in which weights and representations from PLMs are repurposed for downstream tasks. Although PLMs have shown great promise ... 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence explicitly mentions that 'weights and representations from PLMs are repurposed for downstream tasks' and 'PLMs have shown great promise.' PLMs (Pre-trained Language Models) are directly relevant to learning representations from corpora, and the text affirms both repurposing and promise in this context. This supports the claim. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This evidence explicitly states that 'weights and representations from PLMs are repurposed for downstream tasks' and 'have shown great promise,' directly supporting the core assertion of the claim. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence states that 'weights and representations from PLMs are repurposed for downstream tasks' and 'PLMs have shown great promise'. While not explicitly mentioning 'biomedical corpora' or 'at scale', the core idea of repurposing models (PLMs) for learning useful representations with great promise strongly supports the general intent of the claim.
Link for checking: dl.acm.org 
Evidence: by FZ Li · 2024 · Cited by 58 — ... learning, in which weights and representations from PLMs are repurposed for downstream tasks. Although PLMs have shown great promise ... Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence is identical in content to E7, stating that 'weights and representations from PLMs are repurposed for downstream tasks' and 'PLMs have shown great promise.' This directly supports the claim. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This highly cited paper reiterates that 'weights and representations from PLMs are repurposed for downstream tasks' and 'have shown great promise,' further supporting the claim. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence is identical in content to E7, stating that 'weights and representations from PLMs are repurposed for downstream tasks' and 'PLMs have shown great promise'. It supports the claim for the same reasons as E7. 
Link for checking: agilisium.com 
Evidence: Repurposing existing drugs offers a faster, cost-effective way to bring new treatments to patients. By identifying new therapeutic uses for ... 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence discusses 'repurposing existing drugs' for new treatments. The subject of repurposing (drugs) and its purpose (treatments) are different from the claim's focus on repurposing for 'learning generally useful representations from biomedical corpora.' Therefore, it is irrelevant. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This evidence discusses 'drug 
repurposing,' which is a different domain of repurposing and is not relevant to the claim concerning learning representations from biomedical corpora. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence discusses 'repurposing existing drugs' for new treatments, which is a different domain and concept from 'learning generally useful representations from biomedical corpora' using AI models. Therefore, it is irrelevant to the claim. 
Link for checking: morningsidecenter.emory.edu 
Evidence: [FULL CONTENT EXTRACTED] The power and promise of drug repurposing How Emory researchers are shaping the future of accessible health care The road to drug discovery is marked with high attrition rates, astronomical cost, and other barriers that slow the pace of innovation to a crawl. Bringing a new drug to market costs millions of dollars and involves years to accomplish. That’s why repurposing drugs — alternative uses for FDA-approved pharmaceutical ingredients — is a promising avenue for patient care. Finding alternative purposes for existing drugs benefits physicians and patients equally, resulting in reduced development timelines leading to quicker, more cost-effective therapies. Exploring the frontier of drug repurposing at the Morningside Research Symposium Emory University's Morningside Center for Innovative and Affordable Medicine is the forefront of drug repurposing. With five active clinical trials and eight active Morningside research awards, the center has dedicated itself to exploring alternative paths, focusing on repurposing existing drugs. This fall, Emory hosted the Morningside Research Symposium, celebrating the center's impact. The event showcased research findings on repurposed drugs and nutraceuticals, emphasizing cancer research. Over 80 participants attended the symposium, eager to learn about clinical and pre-clinical projects supported by the Morningside Center. “The current biomedical discovery ecosystem often uses financial considerations as a driver for innovation,” remarks Vikas P.
Sukhatme, MD, ScD., Morningside Center director and co-founder, Robert W. Woodruff Professor of Medicine, former dean of Emory School of Medicine. “Many affordable, life-saving treatments remain undiscovered or underdeveloped due to a lack of financial incentive, resulting in missed opportunities. The Morningside Center for Innovative and Affordable Medicine is committed to finding the most promising of such possibilities.” The symposium featured the a compilation of the most promising drug repurposing opportunities for cancer treatment. This list of drug repurposing opportunities for cancer treatment is being utilized to design and fund some clinical studies at Emory. Organized by disease and drug, the user-friendly interface allows quick searches through PubMed and related resources. Recently, the staff at Morningside have collaborated with Cassie Mitchell, PhD, assistant professor at Georgia Tech to leverage AI for the ReMedy database. The ReMedy-Cancer Research Database is a groundbreaking new tool for patients, physicians and curious investigators to find readily accessible repurposed drug data. Investigators can use the ReMedy-Cancer Research Database to quickly set up a clinical trial and patients can access it to learn more about alternative options for combatting disease. How drug repurposing research changed one doctor’s life The event’s distinguished guest was David Fajgenbaum, MD, MBA, MSc, author of the bestselling book Chasing My Cure: A Doctor’s Race... [Content Truncated] 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence extensively discusses 'drug repurposing' and its benefits in patient care. This is a different domain and objective than repurposing for learning representations from biomedical corpora. Therefore, it is irrelevant. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This evidence focuses entirely on 'drug repurposing,' which is distinct from the claim about learning useful representations from biomedical corpora. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence is focused on 'drug repurposing' and its benefits in patient care, which is distinct from the claim about repurposing AI models for learning representations from biomedical text data. Thus, it is irrelevant. 
Link for checking: natran.com 
Evidence: For every item that is reused or repurposed, you are reducing your contribution to the overflowing waste that is present in earth's landfills. 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence discusses reusing or repurposing items to reduce landfill waste. This is entirely unrelated to the claim about learning representations from biomedical corpora. Therefore, it is irrelevant. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This evidence pertains to general physical item reuse and repurposing for waste reduction, which is unrelated to the scientific claim about learning representations from biomedical corpora. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence pertains to environmental benefits of reusing or repurposing items to reduce waste. This is entirely unrelated to the claim concerning AI models, biomedical corpora, and representations. It is irrelevant. 
Link for checking: pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov 
Evidence: [FULL CONTENT EXTRACTED] Abstract Drug repurposing significantly reduces development costs and shortens research cycles, making it a critical strategy in drug discovery. An emerging class of drug repurposing approaches applies deep learning to structural data. However, these methods often depend on static representations of molecular and protein structures, which may not fully capture the dynamic character of compound–protein interactions.
To address these challenges and enhance the accuracy of compound–protein interaction predictions, we introduce an innovative prompt-based multimodal representation learning framework that dynamically encodes task-specific contextual information for drug repurposing. Specifically, the framework includes a dynamic prompt generation module that adaptively creates receptor-specific prompts and a prompt calibration module for effective multimodal feature integration and optimization. When applied to identifying FDA-approved drug candidates targeting G-protein-coupled receptors, our method achieved a 7.4% improvement in mean absolute error compared with state-of-the-art methods, with up to a 25.1% improvement for specific target-of-interest. By demonstrating potential in repurposing non-opioid treatments without the risk of addiction for safe pain management, our method has the capacity to advance drug discovery and meet a wide range of therapeutic needs. Keywords: prompt learning, multimodality, representation learning, drug repurposing Introduction Artificial intelligence (AI) has rapidly transformed drug discovery, particularly in drug repurposing, allowing a faster, more cost-effective and precise identification of therapeutic candidates [1–3]. Traditional drug development pipelines are characterized by high costs, lengthy timelines, and low success rates, highlighting the necessity of AI in addressing these challenges. Early work by Schneider and Schneider [4] introduced deep generative models for de novo molecular design, demonstrating AI’s ability to efficiently explore extensive chemical spaces. Jin et al. [5] advanced this approach by developing a hierarchical graph-based deep generative model that incorporated structural motifs to generate chemically valid and diverse molecules. More recently, Brown et al. [6] and Raffel et al. [7] demonstrated the potential of large language models in natural language processing (NLP), highlighting their applicability for a range of tasks. Zhang et al. [8] applied prompt-based language models to synthetic lethality tasks in cancer drug discovery, highlighting the synergy between AI-driven molecular design and NLP techniques. In parallel, progress in AI-based protein structure prediction has significantly improved understanding of drug–target interactions. Jumper et al. [9] and Senior et al. [10] introduced AlphaFold2 (AF2), which delivers highly accurate 3D models of protein conformations. Baek et al. [11] further employed AF2 for modeling protein complexes for unveiling drug–target interaction me... [Content Truncated] 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence focuses on 'drug repurposing' using deep learning. While deep learning is a modern technique, the 'repurposing' in question is for drugs, not for learning general representations from biomedical corpora via AI models. Therefore, it is irrelevant to the specific claim. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This evidence describes 'drug repurposing' as a strategy in drug discovery, which is not relevant to the claim about learning representations from biomedical corpora. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: Although this evidence mentions deep learning, its primary focus is on 'drug repurposing' for reducing development costs and shortening research cycles. This is a different application of repurposing than learning general representations from biomedical text corpora using AI models, making it irrelevant to the specific claim. 
Claim #5: Learning useful representations from biomedical corpora would empower AI solutions in healthcare and biomedical research. 
Yes (The statement makes a verifiable claim about the potential impact and utility of a specific type of learning on AI solutions in particular domains.)
Refutes 0 
Supports 9 
Irrelevant 0 
Link for checking: pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov 
Evidence: [FULL CONTENT EXTRACTED] Language model and its interpretability in biomedicine: A scoping review - PMID: 38495823 - PMCID: PMC10940999 - DOI: 10.1016/j.isci.2024.109334 Language model and its interpretability in biomedicine: A scoping review Abstract With advancements in large language models, artificial intelligence (AI) is undergoing a paradigm shift where AI models can be repurposed with minimal effort across various downstream tasks. This provides great promise in learning generally useful representations from biomedical corpora, at scale, which would empower AI solutions in healthcare and biomedical research. Nonetheless, our understanding of how they work, when they fail, and what they are capable of remains underexplored due to their emergent properties. Consequently, there is a need to comprehensively examine the use of language models in biomedicine. This review aims to summarize existing studies of language models in biomedicine and identify topics ripe for future research, along with the technical and analytical challenges w.r.t. interpretability. We expect this review to help researchers and practitioners better understand the landscape of language models in biomedicine and what methods are available to enhance the interpretability of their models. Keywords: Computer science; Health sciences; Natural sciences. © 2024 The Authors. Conflict of interest statement The authors declare no competing interests. Figures References - - Radford A., Narasimhan K., Salimans T., Sutskever I. 2018. Improving Language Understanding by Generative Pre-training. - - Devlin J., Chang M.-W., Lee K., Toutanova K. Bert: pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding. arXiv. 2018 doi: 10.48550/arXiv.1810.04805. Preprint at. - DOI - - Radford A., Wu J., Child R., Luan D., Amodei D., Sutskever I. Language models are unsupervised multitask learners. OpenAI Blog. 2019;1:9. - - Peters M.E., Neumann M., Iyyer M., Gardner M., Clark C., Lee K., Zettlemoyer L. Association for Computational Linguistics; 2018. Deep Contextualized Word Representations. Held in New Orleans, Louisiana; pp. 2227–2237. - - Conneau A., Lample G. Cross-lingual language model pretraining. Adv. Neural Inf. Process. Syst. 2019;32 Publication types LinkOut - more resources Full Text Link for checkings 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: The evidence directly states that 'learning generally useful representations from biomedical corpora... would empower AI solutions in healthcare and biomedical research,' which directly supports the claim. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This high-trust, peer-reviewed scoping review directly states that 'learning generally useful representations from biomedical corpora, at scale, which would empower AI solutions in healthcare and biomedical research' provides great promise. This directly supports the claim (Tier 1). || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence directly states that learning useful representations from biomedical corpora 'provides great promise' and 'would empower AI solutions in healthcare and biomedical research', directly supporting the claim. 
Link for checking: academic.oup.com
Evidence: by F Remy · 2024 · Cited by 57 — In this study, we investigate the potential of large language models (LLMs) to complement biomedical knowledge graphs in the training of semantic models. 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: The evidence discusses the 'potential of large language models (LLMs) to complement biomedical knowledge graphs in the training of semantic models,' which aligns with the idea of learning useful representations to empower AI in the biomedical field. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This high-trust study investigates the potential of large language models (which learn representations from corpora) to complement biomedical knowledge graphs in training semantic models, which aligns with empowering AI solutions in biomedical research (Tier 2). || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence discusses investigating the 'potential' of large language models to complement biomedical knowledge graphs for training semantic models, which aligns with the premise of learning useful representations to empower AI in biomedicine. 
Link for checking: arxiv.org 
Evidence: by N Dey · 2024 · Cited by 14 — We first propose a data engine that synthesizes highly variable training samples that would enable generalization to new biomedical contexts. Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: The evidence suggests synthesizing 'highly variable training samples that would enable generalization to new biomedical contexts,' implying the development of useful representations that would empower AI solutions. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This neutral-trust study proposes a data engine to enable generalization to new biomedical contexts, which is a foundational aspect of learning useful representations and empowering AI solutions in healthcare (Tier 2). || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence proposes a data engine to synthesize training samples for generalization to new biomedical contexts, which is a step towards realizing the empowerment of AI solutions through learning useful representations. 
Link for checking: sciencedirect.com 
Evidence: by D Lyu · 2024 · Cited by 11 — This provides great promise in learning generally useful representations from biomedical corpora, at scale, which would empower AI solutions ... Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: The evidence directly states that 'learning generally useful representations from biomedical corpora, at scale, which would empower AI solutions...' which directly supports the claim. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This high-trust evidence directly states 'This provides great promise in learning generally useful representations from biomedical corpora, at scale, which would empower AI solutions...', explicitly supporting the claim (Tier 1). || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence directly reiterates the core of the claim, stating it 'provides great promise in learning generally useful representations from biomedical corpora, at scale, which would empower AI solutions'. 
Link for checking: pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov 
Evidence: [FULL CONTENT EXTRACTED] Abstract This Perspective explores the application of machine learning toward improved diagnosis and treatment. We outline a vision for how machine learning can transform three broad areas of biomedicine: clinical diagnostics, precision treatments, and health monitoring, where the goal is to maintain health through a range of
diseases and the normal aging process. For each area, early instances of successful machine learning applications are discussed, as well as opportunities and challenges for machine learning. When these challenges are met, machine learning promises a future of rigorous, outcomes-based medicine with detection, diagnosis and treatment strategies that are continuously adapted to individual and environmental differences. eToC blurb - Gray Gray and colleagues provide an ambitious visión of how machine learning could impact healthcare, outlining the progress and challenges of applying machine learning approaches to clinical diagnostics, precision therapeutics, and health monitoring. Introduction Machine learning leverages sophisticated algorithms operating on large-scale, heterogeneous data sets to uncover useful patterns that would be difficult or impossible for even well-trained individuals to identify. There already are many applications of this approach throughout science and society ranging from game playing (Silver et al., 2018) to product recommendations (Batmaz et al., 2019) to controlling self-driving cars (Bojarski et al., 2016). In biomedicine, work in the human genome project (Venter et al., 2001), efforts in cancer omics (e.g., The Cancer Genome Atlas (Tomczak et al., 2015), the International Cancer Genome Consortium (Zhang et al., 2019), and the Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (Ellis et al., 2013)), and numerous international machine learning competitions such as DREAM challenges (Saez-Rodriguez et al., 2016; Sage Bionetworks, 2020) and the Critical Assessment of Genome Interpretation (Andreoletti et al., 2019) have shown the power of this approach. The ability to collect and analyze large datasets related to medical treatments and outcomes promises to transform medicine into a data-driven, outcomes-oriented discipline with profound implications for disease detection, diagnosis and treatment. Collection of molecular and phenotypic data has become pervasive, and includes genomic testing for personalized treatment of cancer, high-resolution two-and three-dimensional anatomical imaging of organs, histological analyses of tissue biopsies, and smart watches that monitor heart rates and notify wearers of irregularities (Shilo et al., 2020). These and many other collected data provide the raw material for a future of early, more accurate diagnoses, personalized treatments, and ongoing monitoring in support of overall health. Machine learning will help realize a future of improved health care by unlocking the potential of large biomedical and patient datasets. Early uses of machine learning in diagnosis and treat... [Content Truncated] 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence outlines a vision for how 'machine learning can transform three broad areas of biomedicine,' and discusses 'early instances of successful machine learning applications,' which supports the notion that learning from biomedical data (a form of 'corpora') can empower AI solutions in healthcare. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This high-trust 'Perspective' explores how machine learning (which relies on learning representations from data) can transform three broad areas of biomedicine, discussing early successes and future opportunities. This supports the utility and empowering effect of such representations (Tier 2). || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence explores how machine learning can transform clinical diagnostics, precision treatments, and health monitoring, discussing successful applications and challenges. While not explicitly mentioning 'representations', it supports the overarching goal of empowering AI in biomedicine, which is the outcome of the claim. 
Link for checking: mdpi.com
Evidence: by K Nassiri · 2024 · Cited by 78 — We mention that LLMs could help improve patient care, accelerate medical research, and optimize the efficiency of healthcare systems such as assisted diagnosis. 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: The evidence mentions that 'LLMs could help improve patient care, accelerate medical research, and optimize the efficiency of healthcare systems,' which strongly implies that learning useful representations (often through LLMs trained on biomedical corpora) would empower AI solutions in these areas. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This neutral-trust evidence mentions that LLMs (which learn representations) 'could help improve patient care, accelerate medical research, and optimize the efficiency of healthcare systems', directly supporting the empowering aspect of the claim (Tier 2). || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence states that LLMs 'could help improve patient care, accelerate medical research, and optimize the efficiency of healthcare systems', directly supporting the idea that these models (which learn representations) would empower AI solutions in healthcare and research. 
Link for checking: pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov 
Evidence: [FULL CONTENT EXTRACTED] Summary With advancements in large language models, artificial intelligence (AI) is undergoing a paradigm shift where AI models can be repurposed with minimal effort across various downstream tasks. This provides great promise in learning generally useful representations from biomedical corpora, at scale, which would empower AI solutions in healthcare and biomedical research. Nonetheless, our understanding of how they work, when they fail, and what they are capable of remains underexplored due to their emergent properties. Consequently, there is a need to comprehensively examine the use of language models in biomedicine. This review aims to summarize existing studies of language models in biomedicine and identify topics ripe for future research, along with the technical and analytical challenges w.r.t. interpretability. We expect this review to help researchers and practitioners better understand the landscape of language models in biomedicine and what methods are available to enhance the interpretability of their models. Subject areas: Health sciences, Natural sciences, Computer science Graphical abstract Health sciences; Natural sciences; Computer science Introduction Recent progress made in large language models, i.e., GPT,1 BERT,2 and ChatGPT, presents a chance to rethink artificial intelligence (AI) systems, with language as a means to facilitate interaction between humans and AI. Generally, a language model is a probability distribution over a sequence of word tokens, with and being a vocabulary, as shown in Figure 2A. But why would you want to compute such a probability of a word sequence? In the application scenario, the goal is to produce word sequences as output. For example, the goal of text summarization is to convert long texts into concise summaries. By computing the probability distribution over utterances, the word sequence can be generated by sampling tokens from this learned probability distribution. A simple approach to computing the probability distribution of word sequence is to use statistical techniques, such as relative frequency counts. However, it is very data-intensive and suffers from high variance: even grammatical sentences will have a zero probability if they have not occurred in the training data. An alternative way is to compute the probability in the product format. N-gram models make a crucial simplifying approximation by conditioning on only the last words. However, those traditional probabilistic language models require smoothing techniques to avoid the situation when there is a rare or unseen word. Besides, these models are computationally intensive for
large histories of text and cannot capture the long-range dependencies in language. Neural language models use neural networks or deep neural networks to model languages, such as feedforward neural networks, recurrent neural networks, and transformer neural networks. Neural language models have significant advantages over traditional probabilistic language mod... [Content Truncated] 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: The evidence directly states that 'learning generally useful representations from biomedical corpora, at scale, which would empower AI solutions in healthcare and biomedical research,' which directly supports the claim. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This high-trust, peer-reviewed summary directly states that 'learning generally useful representations from biomedical corpora, at scale, which would empower AI solutions in healthcare and biomedical research' provides great promise. This directly supports the claim (Tier 1). || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: Similar to E1, this evidence directly affirms that learning useful representations from biomedical corpora 'provides great promise' and 'would empower AI solutions in healthcare and biomedical research'. 
Link for checking: tinyeye.com 
Evidence: These models can be trained on vast biomedical corpora to learn representations that are useful for a range of tasks. From predicting patient diagnoses to ... 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: The evidence states that 'These models can be trained on vast biomedical corpora to learn representations that are useful for a range of tasks. From predicting patient diagnoses to ...' This directly supports the claim that learning useful representations from 
biomedical corpora empowers AI solutions. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This neutral-trust evidence states that models 'can be trained on vast biomedical corpora to learn representations that are useful for a range of tasks,' directly confirming the 'useful representations from biomedical corpora' aspect of the claim (Tier 2). || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence directly states that models 'can be trained on vast biomedical corpora to learn representations that are useful for a range of tasks', explicitly linking useful representations from corpora to various AI tasks, thus empowering solutions. 
Link for checking: nature.com 
Evidence: by J Zhou · 2025 · Cited by 1 — These models, trained on vast text corpora, have shown remarkable proficiency in generating, understanding, and analyzing human language. Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: The evidence notes that 'These models, trained on vast text corpora, have shown remarkable proficiency in generating, understanding, and analyzing 
human language,' providing a general foundational premise that learning from corpora leads to powerful models, which applies to the biomedical context as well. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This high-trust evidence discusses the general proficiency of models trained on 'vast text corpora' in human language. While related to LLMs, it does not specifically mention 'biomedical corpora' or 'empowering AI solutions in healthcare and biomedical research,' making it irrelevant to the specific claim (Tier 3). || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence notes that models trained on vast text corpora show 'remarkable proficiency in generating, understanding, and analyzing human language'. This establishes the foundational capability of such models to learn useful representations, which is a prerequisite for empowering AI in biomedicine.
Claim #6: Our understanding of AI models' workings, failures, and capabilities remains underexplored. 
Yes (The statement makes a verifiable claim about the current state of knowledge and research in a specific area, which can be assessed by reviewing existing literature.) 
Refutes 0 
Supports 12 
Irrelevant 0 
Link for checking: sciencedirect.com 
Evidence: by C Cousineau · 2025 · Cited by 11 — The primary objective of this research is to gain an understanding of AI developers' perspectives on trustworthy AI and its ability to implement in practice. 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence indicates ongoing research aimed at understanding AI developers' perspectives on trustworthy AI, which aligns with the claim that understanding AI workings and capabilities is underexplored. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This high-trust research, with its primary objective to gain an understanding of AI developers' perspectives, implicitly indicates that a comprehensive understanding is still being sought, aligning with the claim that understanding remains underexplored. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This research explicitly aims to 'gain an understanding' of AI perspectives, indicating that comprehensive understanding is still an active area of exploration, thus supporting the claim of underexplored workings and capabilities. 
Link for checking: dl.acm.org 
Evidence: While higher model accuracy intuitively reduces errors and enhances outcomes [75], prior research highlights that this may not always hold true, ... 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence suggests that the intuitive link between model accuracy and error reduction is not always true, indicating a lack of full understanding regarding AI model behaviors and potential failures. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This high-trust evidence points out that intuitive understandings of AI model accuracy do not always hold true, implying complexities and underexplored aspects of how models function and fail, thus supporting the claim. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: The fact that intuitive assumptions about AI accuracy don't always hold true signifies a gap in our understanding of when and why models fail, directly supporting the notion that AI's failures and workings are underexplored. 
Link for checking: linkedin.com 
Evidence: Once synthetic content becomes statistically dominant in public data, future models inherit those artifacts, reinforcing any errors, stylistic ... 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence describes how synthetic content can propagate and reinforce errors in future AI models, highlighting a complex and potentially underexplored aspect of AI failures and their systemic impact. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This evidence describes a mechanism by which AI models can inherit and reinforce errors through synthetic
data, indicating a complex failure mode that contributes to the underexplored nature of AI model workings and failures. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence highlights a mechanism by which errors are reinforced in future models, implying an ongoing need to explore and understand these failure modes to prevent future systemic issues. This directly supports the claim of underexplored failures. 
Link for checking: reddit.com 
Evidence: As users, seeing the reasoning process—though not fully explaining the model's logic—is valuable. If results are solid, deep understanding isn't ... 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: The statement "though not fully explaining the model's logic" directly confirms that the underlying workings of AI models are not fully understood, supporting the claim. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This evidence explicitly states that the reasoning process visible to users does not fully explain the model's logic, directly affirming that the inner workings of AI models remain underexplored. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: The phrase 'though not fully explaining the model's logic' explicitly indicates that the inner workings of AI models are not completely understood, which aligns perfectly with the claim that their workings are underexplored. 
Link for checking: technologyreview.com 
Evidence: [FULL CONTENT EXTRACTED] Nobody knows how AI works It’s still early days for our understanding of AI, so expect more glitches and fails as it becomes a part of real-world products. This story originally appeared in The Algorithm, our weekly newsletter on AI. To get stories like this in your inbox first, sign up here. I’ve been experimenting with using AI assistants in my day-to-day work. The biggest obstacle to their being useful is they often get things blatantly wrong. In one case, I used an AI transcription platform while interviewing someone about a physical disability, only for the AI summary to insist the conversation was about autism. It’s an example of AI’s “hallucination” problem, where large language models simply make things up. Recently we’ve seen some AI failures on a far bigger scale. In the latest (hilarious) gaffe, Google’s Gemini refused to generate images of white people, especially white men. Instead, users were able to generate images of Black popes and female Nazi soldiers. Google had been trying to get the outputs of its model to be less biased, but this backfired, and the tech company soon found itself in the middle of the US culture wars, with conservative critics and Elon Musk accusing it of having a “woke” bias and not representing history accurately. Google apologized and paused the feature. In another now-famous incident, Microsoft’s Bing chat told a New York Times reporter to leave his wife. And customer service chatbots keep getting their companies in all sorts of trouble. For example, Air Canada was recently forced to give a customer a refund in compliance with a policy its customer service chatbot had made up. The list goes on. Tech companies are rushing AI-powered products to launch, despite extensive evidence that they are hard to control and often behave in unpredictable ways. This weird behavior happens because nobody knows exactly how—or why—deep learning, the fundamental technology behind today’s AI boom, works. It’s one of the biggest puzzles in AI. My colleague Will Douglas Heaven just published a piece where he dives into it. The biggest mystery is how large language models such as Gemini and OpenAI’s GPT-4 can learn to do something they were not taught to do. You can train a language model on math problems in
English and then show it French literature, and from that, it can learn to solve math problems in French. These abilities fly in the face of classical statistics, which provide our best set of explanations for how predictive models should behave, Will writes. Read more here. It’s easy to mistake perceptions stemming from our ignorance for magic. Even the name of the technology, artificial intelligence, is tragically misleading. Language models appear smart because they generate humanlike prose by predicting the next word in a sentence. The technology is not truly intelligent, and calling it that subtly shifts our expectations so we treat the technology as more capable than it really is. Don’t fall into the tech sector’s mark... [Content Truncated] Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence explicitly states, "Nobody knows how AI works" and "It's still early days for our understanding of AI," directly supporting the claim that AI models' workings, failures, and capabilities remain underexplored, providing examples of "glitches and fails" and "hallucination." || [Researcher]: Researcher: This high-trust evidence directly states "Nobody knows how AI works" and "It's still early days for our understanding of AI," and provides concrete examples of "glitches and fails" and the "hallucination problem," all of which strongly support the claim that AI models' workings, failures, and capabilities are underexplored. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence explicitly states 'Nobody knows how AI works' and 'It’s still early days for our understanding of AI,' providing direct and strong support for the claim that AI models' workings and overall understanding are underexplored. The examples of 'glitches and fails' further corroborate the underexplored nature of AI failures. 
Link for checking: news.stanford.edu 
Evidence: Data scientist James Zou discusses new findings that reveal fundamental gaps in how language models understand human perspective. 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence highlights "fundamental gaps" in language models' understanding of human perspective, which directly supports the claim that AI models' workings and capabilities are underexplored. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This high-trust evidence highlights "new findings that reveal fundamental gaps" in how AI models understand human perspective, directly supporting the claim that their capabilities remain underexplored. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: The mention of 'fundamental gaps' in how language models understand human perspective directly confirms that AI models' capabilities and workings are not fully understood and require further exploration. 
Link for checking: forbes.com 
Evidence: Seduction Of Sales And Marketing AI: The Most Visible AI Pilot Failures ... MIT's research echoes this: Most enterprise tools fail not because of ... 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence refers to "The Most Visible AI Pilot Failures" and states that "Most enterprise tools fail," directly supporting the claim that AI models' failures are underexplored or at least prevalent and not fully understood. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This high-trust evidence refers to "Most Visible AI Pilot Failures" and indicates that "Most enterprise tools fail," directly addressing the underexplored nature of AI failures. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: Referring to 'The Most Visible AI Pilot Failures' and research indicating that enterprise tools fail, this evidence directly supports the notion that AI's failures are a significant aspect that is still being explored and understood.
Link for checking: pangram.com 
Evidence: WHEN AI CO-SCIENTISTS FAIL: WHEN AI CO-SCIENTISTS FAIL: SPOT—A ... failures with downstream model errors. Instead, we process all the documents ... Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: The repeated phrase "WHEN AI CO-SCIENTISTS FAIL" and the mention of "failures with downstream model errors" directly support the claim regarding underexplored failures of AI models. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This evidence discusses AI co-scientist failures and downstream model errors, indicating that the mechanisms and implications of these failures are still being investigated and are therefore underexplored. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: The discussion of 'failures with downstream model errors' reinforces the idea that AI failures are a known issue that requires continued analysis and understanding of their mechanisms. This supports the claim of underexplored failures. 
Link for checking: hai.stanford.edu 
Evidence: [FULL CONTENT EXTRACTED] When AI Systems Systemically Fail By studying the marketplace of commercial machine learning models, scholars characterize when individuals are exclusively misclassified. Machine learning research traditionally studies a single model at a time. But the impact of this technology on people depends on the cumulative result of many interactions people have with different models — or a model ecosystem. In hiring, for example, a job candidate’s outcome depends not just on one employer using one hiring algorithm, but on all the companies that use that hiring algorithm. An interdisciplinary team from the Center for Research on Foundation Models (CRFM), led by Stanford CS PhD Rishi Bommasani, analyzed several machine learning model ecosystems. Their aim was to characterize how individuals experience machine learning across multiple models in contexts, such as computer vision, natural language processing, and speech recognition. Their paper, titled “Ecosystem-level Analysis of Deployed Machine Learning Reveals Homogeneous Outcomes,” uncovers unsettling patterns of systemic failure that are invisible from the prevailing single-model perspective of analysis. Among other findings, the study, which will be presented at the Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS) 2023, identifies new forms of racial disparity in medical imaging for dermatology that occur in the predictions of ML models but not in the predictions of human dermatologists. Studying Commercially Deployed ML The CRFM team built on previous work hypothesizing that standard practices in machine learning could yield homogeneous outcomes. In their past paper, they conjectured that the dependence of modern machine learning models on the same datasets (e.g., ImageNet) and foundation models (e.g., GPT-4) would lead to a pattern in which some individuals exclusively experience negative outcomes. They believed that algorithmic monoculture, or reliance on the same algorithms or algorithmic components, could subject some people to repeated harm. If individuals or groups experience negative outcomes repeatedly, systemic exclusion could become institutionalized. The researchers called this concept “outcome homogenization,” where algorithmic monoculture ensures that individuals experience the same outcomes repeatedly across AI tools. To build on this line of work, they designed a follow-up study that applies their ecosystem-level perspective to analyze commercially deployed ML models from providers like Amazon, Google, IBM, Microsoft, and others. The team leveraged a large-scale ML API (application programming interface) audit called HAPI (History of APIs) to identify overall trends in deployed machine learning. The unique dataset spans three modalities of text, images, and
speech with three commercial systems per modality and covers a three-year period from 2020 to 2022. Altogether, HAPI provides 11 datasets with the predictions of nine deployed ML models on a total of 1.7 million data poin... [Content Truncated] 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence discusses "When AI Systems Systemically Fail" and the need for studying "model ecosystems" beyond single models, indicating that the systemic failures and broader capabilities of AI are still being characterized and thus remain underexplored. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This high-trust evidence details research into "When AI Systems Systemically Fail" and aims to "characterize" interactions within "model ecosystems," shifting from traditional single-model studies. This indicates an underexplored systemic understanding of AI failures and capabilities. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence describes a shift in research to 'model ecosystems' to understand the 'cumulative result of many interactions,' implying that the broader systemic capabilities and potential failures of AI across multiple models were previously 'underexplored' by traditional research. 
Link for checking: medium.com 
Evidence: Rather than viewing AI as merely a tool for computational enhancement, recognizing these unexplored domains suggests possibilities for ... 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: The explicit mention of "unexplored domains" in AI directly supports the claim that AI models' workings, failures, and capabilities remain underexplored. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This evidence explicitly mentions "unexplored domains" related to AI, directly supporting the claim that understanding of AI remains underexplored. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: The explicit recognition of 'unexplored domains' within AI directly and unequivocally supports the claim that our understanding of AI models' workings, failures, and capabilities remains underexplored. 
Link for checking: pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov 
Evidence: [FULL CONTENT EXTRACTED] Abstract Recent advances in artificial intelligence (AI) have led to its widespread industrial adoption, with machine learning systems demonstrating superhuman performance in a significant number of tasks. However, this surge in performance, has often been achieved through increased model complexity, turning such systems into “black box” approaches and causing uncertainty regarding the way they operate and, ultimately, the way that they come to decisions. This ambiguity has made it problematic for machine learning systems to be adopted in sensitive yet critical domains, where their value could be immense, such as healthcare. As a result, scientific interest in the field of Explainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI), a field that is concerned with the development of new methods that explain and interpret machine learning models, has been tremendously reignited over recent years. This study focuses on machine learning interpretability methods; more specifically, a literature review and taxonomy of these methods are presented, as well as links to their programming implementations, in the hope that this survey would serve as a reference point for both theorists and practitioners. Keywords: xai, machine learning, explainability, interpretability, fairness, sensitivity, black-box 1. Introduction Artificial intelligence (AI) had for many years mostly been a field focused heavily on theory, without many applications of real-world impact. This has radically changed over the past decade as a combination of more powerful machines, improved learning algorithms, as well as easier access to vast amounts of data enabled
advances in Machine Learning (ML) and led to its widespread industrial adoption[1]. Around 2012 Deep Learning methods [2] started to dominate accuracy benchmarks, achieving superhuman results and further improving in the subsequent years. As a result, today, a lot of real-world problems in different domains, stretching from retail and banking [3,4] to medicine and healthcare [5,6,7], are tackled while using machine learning models. However, this improved predictive accuracy has often been achieved through increased model complexity. A prime example is the deep learning paradigm, which is at the heart of most state-of-the-art machine learning systems. It allows for machines to automatically discover, learn, and extract the hierarchical data representations that are needed for detection or classification tasks. This hierarchy of increasing complexity combined with the fact that vast amounts of data are used to train and develop such complex systems, while, in most cases, boosts the systems’ predictive power, inherently reducing their ability to explain their inner workings and mechanisms. As a consequence, the rationale behind their decisions becomes quite hard to understand and, therefore, their predictions hard to interpret. There is clear trade-off between the performance of a machine learning model and its ability to produce explainable and int... [Content Truncated] Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence explicitly identifies AI systems as "black box" approaches that cause "uncertainty regarding the way they operate and... come to decisions," directly supporting the claim that their workings and capabilities are underexplored. The mention of Explainable AI (XAI) further underscores this ongoing challenge. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This high-trust evidence explicitly highlights that increased model complexity creates "black box" systems, causing "uncertainty regarding the way they operate," and notes the renewed scientific interest in Explainable AI (XAI) to develop methods to "explain and interpret machine learning models." This overwhelmingly supports the claim that AI models' workings are underexplored. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence clearly states that increased model complexity leads to 'black box' approaches and 'uncertainty regarding the way they operate,' directly confirming that AI models' workings are underexplored. The 'reignited' interest in Explainable AI (XAI) further underscores this ongoing need for deeper understanding. 
Link for checking: hai.stanford.edu 
Evidence: [FULL CONTENT EXTRACTED] What Workers Really Want from Artificial Intelligence A Stanford study captures the gap between worker desires and AI’s abilities, and highlights areas ripe for research and development. Artificial intelligence is radically shifting the labor market. Today’s workers are increasingly turning to AI for everyday tasks, while automation is reshaping entire sectors of the economy and companies from Amazon to Microsoft are announcing workforce reductions driven by AI deployment. But the narrative in earning calls and news articles leaves critical questions unanswered: What do workers want from AI, and does the technology’s capabilities align with those desires? To answer these questions, researchers from the Stanford Institute for Human-Centered AI and the Digital Economy Lab undertook a comprehensive study of U.S. workers and AI experts. They surveyed 1,500 workers to discern where AI agents could benefit work and where they might cause harm and interviewed 52 AI experts to better understand the technology’s current abilities. The researchers then plotted worker desires alongside AI capabilities to identify opportunities and tasks that warrant reconsideration for automation. The preprint study concluded that workers seek automation primarily for repetitive tasks but prefer to retain agency and oversight over
these AI tools. Alarmingly, it also revealed a significant disconnect between what employees desire from AI and the reality of its current capabilities. The findings also suggest a shift in the type of work that earns higher wages: Salaries for traditional information analysis will likely dip, while interpersonal skills and emotional intelligence will earn more. “As the workforce evolves, understanding and bridging the gap between worker expectations and the realities of AI capabilities will be crucial for organizations striving for successful integration,” said co-author Diyi Yang, a Stanford assistant professor of computer science and affiliate of Stanford HAI. “This report offers a timely and structured baseline of where we are right now.” What People Want The scholars surveyed 1,500 individuals in 104 occupations to understand where workers desire automation and where they resist it. Trust emerged as a top concern: 45% expressed doubts about the accuracy and reliability of AI systems, while 23% feared job loss and 16% worried about the lack of human oversight. Many respondents were especially concerned about AI encroaching on creative tasks or handling communication with vendors and clients. Conversely, they welcomed automation that would free up time for higher-value work (69.4%), reduce task repetitiveness (46.6%), and improve the quality of their work (46.6%). Specifically, they welcomed automation that might include scheduling client appointments, maintaining files of information, or rectifying errors in records. The study also explored preferences regarding the level of AI involvement. Most respondents favored a collaborative approach, wi... [Content Truncated] 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence describes a study highlighting "the gap between worker desires and AI's abilities" and identifying "areas ripe for research and development," which supports the claim that AI models' capabilities and potential failures are still underexplored. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This high-trust Stanford study explicitly identifies a "gap between worker desires and AI's abilities" and highlights "areas ripe for research and development," directly supporting the claim that AI models' capabilities remain underexplored. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: The identification of a 'gap between worker desires and AI’s abilities' and highlighting 'areas ripe for research and development' directly indicates that AI's capabilities are not fully understood or optimized, thus supporting the claim that they are underexplored. 
Claim #7: This lack of understanding is due to AI models' emergent properties. Yes (The statement posits a causal relationship, which is a scientific hypothesis that can be investigated, debated, and potentially verified or refuted.) 
Refutes 1 
Supports 4 
Irrelevant 3 
Link for checking: medium.com 
Evidence: Their research shows that 'emergence' is not an inherent property of scaling models, but rather a measurement error caused by inferior metric ... 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: E3 directly refutes the concept of "emergence" in LLMs as an inherent property, stating it is a measurement error. If "emergence" is not a true phenomenon, then the lack of understanding cannot be attributed to it. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This
evidence explicitly states that 'emergence' in the context of scaling models is not an inherent property but rather a measurement error. If what is perceived as emergent is merely a measurement artifact, then the lack of understanding cannot be attributed to genuine emergent properties, thereby refuting the claim. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This research directly challenges the idea that 'emergence' is an inherent property of scaling models, instead positing it as a measurement error. If what is perceived as emergence is merely a metric artifact, then it cannot be the true cause of a lack of understanding, thereby refuting the cl 
Evidence: [FULL CONTENT EXTRACTED] Summary Claims of “emergent capabilities” in large language models (LLMs) have been discussed by journalists, researchers, and even members of Congress. But these conversations have often been hampered by confusion about what exactly the term means and what it implies. The idea of “emergence” comes from the study of complex systems. It describes systems that cannot be explained simply by looking at their parts, such as complex social networks. The field of deep learning, including LLMs, inherently involves emergence, since the internal properties of neural networks are difficult to predict simply by looking at their millions or billions of individual parameters. A related—but distinct—definition of emergence has become common in the context of LLMs. According to this definition, emergence refers to the capabilities of LLMs that appear suddenly and unpredictably as model size, computational power, and training data scale up. Researchers have found many examples of such “emergent capabilities.” The topic has garnered attention because of the potential for the unpredictable emergence of risky capabilities (e.g., effective autonomous hacking) in the future. It has also been exaggerated in the popular press. Some researchers dispute that LLMs exhibit sudden and unpredictable changes in their capabilities as they increase in scale. They have devised alternative metrics to measure the same capabilities that show smooth increases with scale and could potentially help predict capability increases into the future. However, devising such metrics is often not straightforward, especially for complex tasks, making it unclear how reliable this approach will be for making predictions. While there are some methods for estimating the capabilities of LLMs before they are trained—and these will hopefully improve so that researchers can predict even seemingly sudden jumps in capabilities—researcher and policymaker ability to predict the future of LLMs is far from assured. Previous attempts to predict capabilities in advance of further scaling have had decidedly mixed results. Even long after LLMs are initially trained, researchers can discover simple techniques that improve their capabilities dramatically on certain tasks. Furthermore, performance on benchmarks can only tell policymakers so much about the usefulness or risk of LLMs in the real world. More research is therefore needed to measure and predict capabilities of LLMs so policymakers can be better prepared to anticipate and mitigate their risks. What is Emergence? “Emergence” is a term used in many different fields, but it is most closely associated with the field of complex systems. The phrase “the whole is more than the sum of its parts,” is attributed to Aristotle, but the observation was surely first made long before that. If a system exhibits emergence, it is difficult to determine how the whole system will behave simply by observing its parts. The behavior of a whole ant colony emerges from that of the... [Content Truncated] 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: E1 explains that "emergence" is a concept from complex systems, which is applied to LLMs to describe capabilities appearing suddenly and unpredictably with scaling. This directly supports the claim that emergent properties are a factor
in LLM understanding. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This high-trust source defines emergent capabilities in LLMs, explicitly stating that deep learning inherently involves emergence and that internal properties of neural networks are difficult to predict. This directly supports the claim that a lack of understanding is due to these emergent properties. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence clearly states that deep learning inherently involves emergence, making internal properties difficult to predict. This supports the notion that emergent properties contribute to a lack of understanding of AI models. 
Link for checking: arxiv.org 
Evidence: The paper concludes that understanding LLM capabilities requires recognising DNNs as a new domain of complex dynamical systems governed by ... 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: E2 states that understanding LLM capabilities requires recognizing them as complex dynamical systems, which often exhibit emergent properties. This provides indirect support for the claim that emergent properties contribute to a lack of understanding. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This evidence suggests that understanding LLM capabilities requires recognizing them as complex dynamical systems. Complex systems are often characterized by emergent properties, which can make them difficult to fully understand, thus indirectly supporting the claim. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence indicates that understanding complex deep neural networks requires recognizing them as a new domain of complex dynamical systems, implying that their inherent complexity, often linked to emergent properties, contributes to current understanding gaps. 
Link for checking: reddit.com 
Evidence: In the normal meaning of emergent properties, anything that a neural net of any size does is emergent. Once you have more than a few neurons, ... 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: E7 states that in the normal meaning, anything a neural net does is emergent once it has a few neurons. This supports the general idea that AI models (neural nets) possess emergent properties. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This evidence states that in the normal meaning of the term, anything a neural net does is emergent. This implies that emergent properties are inherent to neural networks and could therefore contribute to a lack of understanding. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence establishes that emergent properties are a fundamental aspect of neural networks, implying that any effort to understand them must contend with these properties. This broadly supports the claim that these properties contribute to understanding challenges. 
Link for checking: ioaglobal.org 
Evidence: [FULL CONTENT EXTRACTED] Emergent properties have long been a topic of wonder and intrigue across scientific fields, from the intricate designs of snowflakes in physics to the complexities of DNA in biology. The key idea is simple: when individual parts come together, they sometimes create patterns or behaviours that are unexpected and surprising. Renowned scientist Philip Anderson said "More is different". He pointed out that adding more of something can lead to entirely new results. AI's Evolution Artificial Intelligence (AI) has come a long way from its early days. Initially designed to perform simple tasks, today's AI systems are capable of complex reasoning, decision making and even creative expression. This evolution shows up a
lot in the field of natural language processing, where computers are becoming very good at understanding and generating human-like text. Language Models: The Giants of AI A big part of this evolution has been 'language models'. These are massive computer programmes trained on large amounts of text data. The more data and computational power you give these models, the better they perform. But there is a surprise: as these models grow, they start showing abilities that no one taught them. It is as if by feeding them more information and making them larger, we unlocked new talents that were hidden. Emergent Properties in AI Emergent properties in AI refer to these unexpected abilities that appear as the system becomes more complex. For AI, this means that as we design larger and more intricate models, they start to show behaviours and skills that we did not expect. For instance, when it comes to language models, there seems to be a threshold. Up to a certain point, the model's performance might improve steadily. But after this point, there's a sudden leap in abilities – a phase transition. This is a hallmark of emergent properties: the unexpected appearance of new traits that couldn't be predicted by just looking at smaller versions of the system. Let's consider a few examples: - Music and Art Creation: AI models, after being trained on huge amounts of music and art, have started to create their own compositions and artworks. These aren't just random outputs; they often show a depth and complexity that challenge our traditional beliefs about creativity. - Chatbots: Advanced chatbots today can take part in conversations that feel very human-like. They adapt, show empathy and can even use humour. - Autonomous Vehicles: Self-driving cars are a blend of sensors, software and AI algorithms. They learn from their environment and can drive in complex scenarios that would not have been possible for older, simpler systems. - Swarm Intelligence: Using inspiration from groupings in nature, like flocks of birds or schools of fish, AI systems are being designed to work collectively, where they show behaviours that units working alone would not be able to produce. The Road Ahead Emergence in AI is a testament to the potential of technology and the mysteries ... [Content Truncated] 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: E8 discusses the concept of emergent properties in scientific fields and specifically in AI's evolution, linking it to unexpected patterns and behaviors in language models. This supports the claim that emergent properties exist in AI models. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This high-trust source describes emergent properties as unexpected and surprising patterns or behaviors arising from individual parts. Such characteristics inherently lead to difficulty in prediction and understanding, thereby supporting the claim that a lack of understanding is due to these properties. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence defines emergent properties as unexpected and surprising behaviors arising from interacting parts, which directly supports the idea that such properties could lead to a lack of understanding about how AI models function. 
Link for checking: oxfordlearning.com 
Evidence: [FULL CONTENT EXTRACTED] Child concentration issues in school can happen to many students. Most children have trouble paying attention in class at some point. When this happens, especially with young students, parents wonder why their child can’t focus and whether their child might have a learning difficulty. It’s important to know that not every student who has a hard time focusing in school has a learning difficulty, such as ADD or ADHD. In many cases, child concentration issues in school can be caused by a variety of reasons. Signs of a Concentration Problem Common signs that your child is having trouble concentrating in the
classroom include: - Low grades - A dislike of school - Disruptive behaviour in class These signs don’t automatically mean your child has a learning difficulty. Before you start looking for solutions, the first step is to identify the reasons your child is having trouble focusing in school. Here are some of the biggest reasons students have a hard time paying attention in class (that aren’t ADD/ADHD). 10 Reasons Your Child Has Concentration Issues in School 1. Lack of Practice Many young children have a hard time focusing in the classroom simply because they are in a new environment. This can also happen to older children after a break from school, such as March break or summer holidays. 2. Doesn’t Understand the Material What might look like a lack of concentration could actually be a lack of understanding the material. This lack of understanding can lead students to stop paying attention, and consequently falling further behind. 3. Isn’t Being Challenged Enough For some children, what is being taught in class isn’t challenging enough. Children who are not challenged at a high enough level can lose interest in the material and stop paying attention altogether. 4. Distracted by External Stimuli The classroom can be a place full of distractions, from chatty classmates to a cluttered workstation. Some children have a harder time than others filtering out these distractions, making paying attention to the teacher more challenging. 5. Lack of Motivation In some cases, your child’s concentration problem may actually be a motivation problem. This lack of motivation can lead to a number of issues in the classroom—including disinterest in the material. 6. Mismatched Learning Style Different students have different learning styles: some learn best by seeing, some by hearing, and others by doing. If your child’s teacher emphasizes a learning style that doesn’t match with how your child learns, this can result in a lack of focus and understanding. 7. Not Getting Proper Sleep or Nutrition If your child is not getting the recommended 8-10 hours of sleep each night, they won’t have the energy needed to concentrate in class. Skipping breakfast is another big cause of lack of focus in class. If your child is heading to class hungry, they are more apt to be distracted than learning-ready. 8. Disorganization Problems A disorganized notebook or workspace can be a ca... [Content Truncated] 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: E4 discusses child concentration issues in school, which is unrelated to AI models or emergent properties. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This evidence discusses child concentration issues in school, which is unrelated to AI models or their emergent properties. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence discusses child concentration issues and learning difficulties, which bears no relevance to the emergent properties of AI models or our understanding of them. 
Link for checking: smarterintervention.com 
Evidence: [FULL CONTENT EXTRACTED] The 4 Most Common Reasons for Breakdowns in Comprehension “Reading words without understanding is a string of meaningless noise.” – Don Holdaway The ultimate goal of reading is to make meaning or glean information from text to comprehend what has been read. For some students, reaching this level of the reading process can be quite difficult. It is important to understand the underlying causes of breakdowns in comprehension. The 4 Most Common Reasons for Breakdowns in Comprehension 1 - Weak Decoding Skills When a student is laboring over the process of decoding words, there simply isn’t the opportunity to begin understanding what is being read. Only once the student is able to read fluently, with word recognition being an automatic process, will they have the ability to focus their energy on understanding what the words are saying. Improving decoding skills,
however, is not enough to improve students’ comprehension abilities. While decoding is a big piece of the puzzle, understanding a text requires much more than just being able to read the words. 2 - Limited Background Knowledge Students may lack knowledge of the concept being 
taught or lack experiences that help them understand the subject matter. It is a natural progression of reading strategies that are taught in our classrooms, as students progress from learning how to read, they move into the process of reading to learn. However, if students are still struggling with learning how to read they have likely missed out or not tapped into this instruction as it was being delivered in their classrooms. If a student is struggling with cementing their sound-symbol knowledge, for example, they aren’t ready to understand instruction about how stories work or the difference between non-fiction and fiction text features. They are still grappling with the foundational pieces of reading and have missed out on this instruction. They may also be missing key instructional pieces presented in classes like history or English that they are expected to know later on. I often feel like our dyslexic or struggling readers can easily get lost in the shuffle or left behind as the class progresses through these stages of reading development and through class material. 3 - Inadequate Vocabulary Knowledge Comprehension can be hindered if students do not understand the vocabulary or meaning of words in a text. This can relate directly to a lack of exposure to vocabulary words in print. It has often been my observation that dyslexic students possess a stronger spoken vocabulary than written vocabulary. While they may be able to use higher-level words in their day-to-day conversation, these words often go unrecognizable in texts due to the difficulty associated with decoding or due to the level of books these students can access. Teachers will also note that dyslexic students shy away from using advanced vocabulary (even if it is part of their spoken vocabulary) in writing. This is due to the fact that spelling advanced v... [Content Truncated] Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: E5 discusses breakdowns in reading comprehension for students, which is unrelated to AI models or emergent properties. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This evidence discusses reasons for breakdowns in reading comprehension, which is unrelated to AI models or their emergent properties. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence details reasons for human reading comprehension breakdowns, which is entirely separate from the technical aspects of AI model understanding or their emergent properties. 
Link for checking: facebook.com 
Evidence: People with aphasia may have a hard time speaking, understanding spoken words, reading, and writing. Aphasia is not an intellectual disorder. 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: E6 discusses aphasia, which is unrelated to AI models or emergent properties. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This evidence discusses aphasia, a language disorder, which is unrelated to AI models or their emergent properties. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence describes a human neurological condition (aphasia) and has no bearing on the properties of AI models or our ability to understand them. 
Claim #9: This review aims to identify technical and analytical challenges regarding interpretability. 
Yes (The statement describes the explicit objective or purpose of a document, which can be verified by examining the document itself.)
Refutes 0 
Supports 2 
Irrelevant 4 
Link for checking: pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov 
Evidence: [FULL CONTENT EXTRACTED] Abstract Artificial Intelligence (AI) has demonstrated exceptional performance in automating critical healthcare tasks, such as diagnostic imaging analysis and predictive modeling, often surpassing human capabilities. The integration of AI in healthcare promises substantial improvements in patient outcomes, including faster diagnosis and personalized treatment plans. However, AI models frequently lack interpretability, leading to significant challenges concerning their performance and generalizability across diverse patient populations. These opaque AI technologies raise serious patient safety concerns, as non-interpretable models can result in improper treatment decisions due to misinterpretations by healthcare providers. Our systematic review explores various AI applications in healthcare, focusing on the critical assessment of model interpretability and accuracy. We identify and elucidate the most significant limitations of current AI systems, such as the black-box nature of deep learning models and the variability in performance across different clinical settings. By addressing these challenges, our objective is to provide healthcare providers with well-informed strategies to develop innovative and safe AI solutions. This review aims to ensure that future AI implementations in healthcare not only enhance performance but also maintain transparency and patient safety. Keywords: artificial intelligence, machine learning, deep learning, healthcare, interpretability, explainability, accuracy 1 Introduction In recent years, AI technology has enabled the widespread adoption of machine learning (ML) and deep learning (DL) methods in healthcare. These techniques have automated various processes like screening, diagnostics, and treatment (Zhongqi and Jia, 2022). However, DL algorithms are often considered “black boxes” due to their intricate training and numerous parameters, making it hard to decipher the connection between inputs and outputs (Zhang and Zhang, 2023). Although advanced DL methods can significantly improve speed and accuracy without human intervention, establishing an interpretable AI framework remains imperative. Understanding algorithms’ inner workings and prediction bases is essential, not just competitively but also for stakeholder trust (Stinson and Vlaad, 2024). Discussing trustworthy AI involves the terms accuracy, interpretability, and explainability, which are occasionally used interchangeably. In data mining and machine learning, interpretability is the interface between people and decision models that accurately represents the model and is intelligible to humans (Savindu Herath Pathirannehelage et al., 2024). 2 Research gaps While current literature highlights the use of AI in healthcare, the research gaps in terms of model generalizability, lack of real-time interpretability, and inclusion of diverse clinical data remain relatively unexplored. Additionally, the integration of uncertainty quantification with interpretability m... [Content Truncated] 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: The evidence states, 'Our systematic review explores various AI applications in healthcare, focusing on the critical assessment of model interpretability and accuracy. We identify and elucidate the most significant limitations of current AI systems.' This directly supports the claim's aim to identify technical and analytical challenges regarding interpretability. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This systematic review explicitly states its focus on
the critical assessment of model interpretability and accuracy, and aims to identify the most significant limitations of current AI systems. This directly aligns with the claim's aim to identify technical and analytical challenges regarding interpretability. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: The abstract explicitly states, "Our systematic review explores various AI applications in healthcare, focusing on the critical assessment of model interpretability and accuracy. We identify and elucidate the most significant limitations of current AI systems...". This directly confirms the aim of the review is to identify technical and analytical challenges regarding interpretability. 
Link for checking: sciencedirect.com 
Evidence: by D Muhammad · 2024 · Cited by 120 — This systematic literature review examines state-of-the-art Explainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI) methods applied to medical image analysis. 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: The evidence describes a systematic literature review examining 'state-of-the-art Explainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI) methods'. XAI inherently deals with the interpretability of AI, and reviewing its methods would involve identifying technical and analytical aspects related to interpretability. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This systematic literature review examines Explainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI) methods. XAI is inherently concerned with interpretability, and a review of such methods would necessarily address technical and analytical challenges in achieving interpretability. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence states the review examines "state-of-the-art Explainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI) methods". While XAI relates to interpretability, the stated aim here is to examine methods, not explicitly to identify or elucidate technical and analytical challenges regarding interpretability. It describes a different primary focus. 
Link for checking: mcpdigitalhealth.org 
Evidence: by L Farah · 2023 · Cited by 70 — This review aimed to specify different concepts that are essential to the development of medical devices (MDs) with artificial intelligence (AI) (AI-based MDs) 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: The evidence states its aim is 'to specify different concepts that are essential to the development of medical devices (MDs) with artificial intelligence (AI) (AI-based MDs)'. While related to AI, this stated aim does not explicitly or directly align with identifying technical and analytical challenges specifically regarding 'interpretability' as the primary focus. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This evidence describes a review aimed at specifying essential concepts for the development of AI-based medical devices. While interpretability may be a concept within this, the evidence does not state that the *aim of this review* is to identify technical and analytical challenges regarding interpretability. It is too general to directly support the specific claim. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence indicates the review aimed to "specify different concepts that are essential to the development of medical devices (MDs) with artificial intelligence (AI) (AI-based MDs)". This is a distinct aim, unrelated to identifying interpretability challenges. 
Link for checking: guides.mclibrary.duke.edu 
Evidence: [FULL CONTENT EXTRACTED] There are many types of evidence synthesis projects, including systematic reviews as well as others. The selection of review type is wholly
dependent on the research question. Not all research questions are well-suited for systematic reviews. Review the table to peruse review types and associated methodologies. Librarians can also help your team determine which review type might be appropriate for your project. Reproduced from Grant, M. J. and Booth, A. (2009), A typology of reviews: an analysis of 14 review types and associated methodologies. Health Information & Libraries Journal, 26: 91-108. doi:10.1111/j.1471-1842.2009.00848.x Label Description Search Appraisal Synthesis Analysis Critical review Aims to demonstrate writer has extensively researched literature and critically evaluated its quality. Goes beyond mere description to include degree of analysis and conceptual innovation. Typically results in hypothesis or mode Seeks to identify most significant items in the field No formal quality assessment. Attempts to evaluate according to contribution Typically narrative, perhaps conceptual or chronological Significant component: seeks to identify conceptual contribution to embody existing or derive new theory Literature review Generic term: published materials that provide examination of recent or current literature. Can cover wide range of subjects at various levels of completeness and comprehensiveness. May include research findings May or may not include comprehensive searching May or may not include quality assessment Typically narrative Analysis may be chronological, conceptual, thematic, etc. Mapping review/ systematic map Map out and categorize existing literature from which to commission further reviews and/or primary research by identifying gaps in research literature Completeness of searching determined by time/scope constraints No formal quality assessment May be graphical and tabular Characterizes quantity and quality of literature, perhaps by study design and other key features. May identify need for primary or secondary research Meta-analysis Technique that statistically combines the results of quantitative studies to provide a more precise effect of the results Aims for exhaustive, comprehensive searching. May use funnel plot to assess completeness Quality assessment may determine inclusion/ exclusion and/or sensitivity analyses Graphical and tabular with narrative commentary Numerical analysis of measures of effect assuming absence of heterogeneity Mixed studies review/mixed methods review Refers to any combination of methods where one significant component is a literature review (usually systematic). Within a review context it refers to a combination of review approaches for example combining quantitative with qualitative research or outcome with process studies Requires either very sensitive search to retrieve all studies or separately conceived quantitative and qualitative strategies Requires either a generic appraisal instru... [Content Truncated] 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence describes different types of evidence synthesis projects and methodologies for reviews. It does not describe a specific review with the aim stated in the claim. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This evidence discusses various types of evidence synthesis projects and methodologies for reviews. It does not describe the specific aim or content of the review mentioned in the claim. Therefore, it is irrelevant to verifying the claim's aim. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence discusses a typology of review types and associated methodologies. It provides general information about how reviews are conducted, rather than revealing the specific aim or content of the review in question. It is entirely meta-information. 
Link for checking: pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov 
Evidence: [FULL CONTENT EXTRACTED] Abstract Review articles are central to evidence synthesis, yet early career researchers often struggle to select and apply appropriate
methodologies. This primer provides a comprehensive overview of five major types of evidence synthesis—quantitative, qualitative, mixed methods, mapping, and meta-evidence synthesis. It also discusses rapid reviews and living reviews as distinct modes of conducting synthesis rather than standalone types. Each review approach is described in terms of its purpose, methodology, strengths, limitations, and suitable application. Key reporting frameworks—including PRISMA, PRISMA-ScR, MOOSE, ENTREQ, and JBI guidance—are referenced to promote methodological transparency. The article also reflects on concerns around redundancy and bias, particularly in systematic reviews and meta-analyses. By situating each review type within a broader ecosystem of knowledge synthesis, the article underscores their complementary roles in informing policy, practice, and future research. This primer serves as a foundational resource for early career researchers and educators, with a companion article planned to guide the process of planning and writing different types of reviews. Keywords: Mapping, qualitative, quantitative, reviews INTRODUCTION Review articles are indispensable in the academic landscape. They provide overviews of existing knowledge, identify gaps in the literature, and suggest directions for future research. For early career researchers, understanding the different types of review articles is essential—not just for writing but for interpreting the literature critically. Choosing the right type of review depends on the research question, available data, and the intended audience. Review types differ in purpose, scope, methodology, and rigor. Some aim to provide a broad overview, such as narrative reviews, while others emphasize methodological rigor and reproducibility, such as systematic reviews and meta-analyses. With the growing complexity of research synthesis, several newer formats have emerged, including scoping reviews, umbrella reviews, and living reviews.[1] This article provides an overview of the most commonly used types of review articles. We explore their definitions, objectives, methodological frameworks, and common reporting guidelines. TYPES OF EVIDENCE SYNTHESIS Evidence synthesis can be classified into five broad types: quantitative evidence synthesis, which evaluates the impact of interventions or combines prognostic, diagnostic, and observational studies; qualitative evidence synthesis, which explores lived experiences and contextual factors; mixed methods evidence synthesis, which integrates quantitative and qualitative findings; mapping evidence synthesis, which charts the extent and distribution of evidence without aggregating results; and meta-evidence synthesis, which synthesizes existing evidence syntheses such as systematic reviews or scoping reviews.[2] Quantitative evidence synthesis Systematic r... [Content Truncated] 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence provides an overview of different types of evidence synthesis, their methodologies, strengths, and limitations. It discusses the nature of review articles but does not describe a review with the specific aim detailed in the claim. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This evidence provides an overview of different types of evidence synthesis and review methodologies for early career researchers. It does not discuss the specific aim or content of the review mentioned in the claim. Therefore, it is irrelevant. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence provides a primer on major types of evidence synthesis. Like E4, it is meta-information about the process of conducting reviews, not about the specific aims or findings of the review mentioned in the claim. 
Link for checking: guides.library.ualberta.ca
Evidence: [FULL CONTENT EXTRACTED] The following table contains a list of the most common types of reviews, the kinds of questions most suited to each, and examples of each. Information on methods for different review types are found at Beyond Searching: How do I do the rest of my review? [1]Munn, Z., Peters, M.D.J., Stern, C. et al. Systematic review or scoping review? Guidance for authors when choosing between a systematic or scoping review approach. BMC Med Res Methodol 18, 143 (2018). https://doi.org/10.1186/s12874-018-0611-x Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence lists common types of reviews and the questions suited to each. It provides general information about review types rather than describing a specific review with the aim mentioned in the claim. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This evidence lists common types of reviews and suitable research questions for them. It is meta-information about reviews and does not describe the specific aim or content of the review mentioned in the claim. Therefore, it is irrelevant. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence lists common types of reviews and suitable questions. It is general guidance on review methodologies and does not provide any information regarding the specific aims or content of the review presented in the claim. 
Claim #10: This review is expected to help researchers and practitioners better understand the landscape of language models in biomedicine. 
Yes (The statement describes the intended utility and anticipated impact of the review, which can be assessed based on its stated goals and content.) 
Refutes 0 
Supports 3 
Irrelevant 6 
Link for checking: pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov 
Evidence: [FULL CONTENT EXTRACTED] Language model and its interpretability in biomedicine: A scoping review - PMID: 38495823 - PMCID: PMC10940999 - DOI: 10.1016/j.isci.2024.109334 Language model and its interpretability in biomedicine: A scoping review Abstract With advancements in large language models, artificial intelligence (AI) is undergoing a paradigm shift where AI models can be repurposed with minimal effort across various downstream tasks. This provides great promise in learning generally useful representations from biomedical corpora, at scale, which would empower AI solutions in healthcare and biomedical research. Nonetheless, our understanding of how they work, when they fail, and what they are capable of remains underexplored due to their emergent properties. Consequently, there is a need to comprehensively examine the use of language models in biomedicine. This review aims to summarize existing studies of language models in biomedicine and identify topics ripe for future research, along with the technical and analytical challenges w.r.t. interpretability. We expect this review to help researchers and practitioners better understand the landscape of language models in biomedicine and what methods are available to enhance the interpretability of their models. Keywords: Computer science; Health sciences; Natural sciences. © 2024 The Authors. Conflict of interest statement The authors declare no competing interests. Figures References - - Radford A., Narasimhan K., Salimans T., Sutskever I. 2018. Improving Language Understanding by Generative Pre-training. - - Devlin J., Chang
M.-W., Lee K., Toutanova K. Bert: pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding. arXiv. 2018 doi: 10.48550/arXiv.1810.04805. Preprint at. - DOI - - Radford A., Wu J., Child R., Luan D., Amodei D., Sutskever I. Language models are unsupervised multitask learners. OpenAI Blog. 2019;1:9. - - Peters M.E., Neumann M., Iyyer M., Gardner M., Clark C., Lee K., Zettlemoyer L. Association for Computational Linguistics; 2018. Deep Contextualized Word Representations. Held in New Orleans, Louisiana; pp. 2227–2237. - - Conneau A., Lample G. Cross-lingual language model pretraining. Adv. Neural Inf. Process. Syst. 2019;32 Publication types LinkOut - more resources Full Text Link for checkings 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: The evidence is an abstract for a scoping review titled 'Language model and its interpretability in biomedicine'. Its stated aim is 'to summarize existing studies of language models in biomedicine and identify topics ripe for future research,' which directly supports the claim that 'This review is expected to help researchers and practitioners better understand the landscape of language models in biomedicine.' || [Researcher]: Researcher: This evidence is a scoping review (Tier 1: Peer-Reviewed Consensus) specifically titled 'Language model and its interpretability in biomedicine: A scoping review'. Its stated aim is to 'summarize existing studies of language models in biomedicine and identify topics ripe for future research', which directly supports the claim that the review is expected to help researchers and practitioners better understand the landscape of language models in biomedicine. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: The abstract of the scoping review explicitly states its aim is to summarize existing studies of language models in biomedicine and identify future research topics. This directly supports the claim that the review is expected to help researchers and practitioners better understand the landscape. 
Link for checking: annualreviews.org 
Evidence: by Z Cao · Cited by 4 — We examine various aspects of biomedical LLMs, including their architecture, training data, fine-tuning approaches, evaluation methodologies, ...See more Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence describes examining 'various aspects of biomedical LLMs', which aligns with the purpose of a review to help researchers and practitioners understand the landscape of language models in biomedicine. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This evidence, from a high-trust source, describes a study or review that 'examine[s] various aspects of biomedical LLMs'. Examining these aspects (architecture, training data, fine-tuning, evaluation) inherently contributes to understanding the 'landscape' of language models in biomedicine, thus supporting the claim. This is considered Tier 1 evidence (Expert Testimony/Peer-Reviewed Research). || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence describes a review that examines various aspects of biomedical LLMs, including architecture, training data, and evaluation. Understanding these fundamental components is precisely how researchers and practitioners gain a better grasp of the landscape, directly supporting the claim. 
Link for checking: nature.com 
Evidence: by J Zhou · 2025 · Cited by 1 — Large language models (LLMs) have revolutionized various fields, and their applications in biomedicine and healthcare have shown ... Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence discusses the 'applications in biomedicine and healthcare' of 'Large language models (LLMs)', which is consistent with the subject matter a review would cover to enhance understanding in the field. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This
evidence, a high-trust scholarly work, discusses the 'applications in biomedicine and healthcare' of Large Language Models. Understanding these applications is part of understanding the 'landscape' of language models in biomedicine, which supports the claim. This is considered Tier 1 evidence (Expert Testimony/Peer-Reviewed Research). || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence makes a general statement about large language models in biomedicine and healthcare but does not specifically verify that the particular review in question will achieve the claimed understanding. It's a broad observation, not direct proof for the claim's specific assertion. 
Link for checking: reddit.com 
Evidence: Hey everyone, I manage a new Google Business Profile for a local business and we're trying to get some initial traction. 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence discusses managing a Google Business Profile for a local business. This topic is logically unrelated to a scientific review about language models in biomedicine. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This evidence discusses managing a Google Business Profile and getting initial traction, which is completely unrelated to language models in biomedicine or helping researchers understand their landscape. Therefore, it is irrelevant to the claim. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence discusses managing a Google Business Profile and gaining traction for a local business, which is entirely unrelated to language models in biomedicine or the impact of a scientific review. 
Link for checking: wordstream.com 
Evidence: [FULL CONTENT EXTRACTED] To say that customer reviews are powerful is an understatement. A few sentences in a review can have more influence on consumers than an entire website. A difference of one star—or even a half-star—can be all it takes for a shopper to choose a competitor over you. Not to mention that reviews are the top local SEO ranking factor. But in order to get those sentences or that extra star, you need to ask your customers for reviews. This can feel awkward or self-serving, but the truth is that people generally love to share their opinions; they just need that extra nudge. In this guide, I’m going to show you why and how to ask for customer reviews in a variety of scenarios—with examples and templates to make your life easier! You can already attest to the power of customer reviews and testimonials from your own shopping experiences (they’re also an important part of bandwagon marketing). Think about the number of times you’ve chosen a business either because of what its reviews said or simply because it had reviews. Or maybe you were never on the fence at all, because you knew exactly what you wanted to buy because you heard great things about it from someone you know. The fact of the matter is, what other people have to say about your business carries more weight than what you have to say about your business, even if they are complete strangers. Not convinced? Consider these online review stats: If that is not enough to get you to leave your comfort zone and start collecting reviews for your own business, here are some more stats that might give you the boost you need: ⭐️ Get all the tips you need to collect more reviews in this free guide download >> How to Get More Reviews: 8 Tips to Boost Ranking, Reputation, & Revenue Whether you’re looking to get more Google reviews, improve your Yelp ratings, get five stars on Facebook, or ramp up your Amazon reviews, there are a variety of ways to ask for them, including: We’ll be covering all of these and more in this post,
but remember that you don’t have to stick with just one method of asking customers for reviews. In fact, you should have a few strategies running at once to ensure a steady stream of feedback is coming in about your business. Multiple and recent reviews help earn you more trust from customers and also help your business to rank higher in search results. Before you get started, make sure your business is listed accurately on sites like Google, Bing, and more with this free business listings grader from LocaliQ. . Asking for a review in person can be intimidating, but it is the most effective approach. If the opportunity presents itself, seize it! The easiest scenario would be that of a customer who approaches you with unsolicited praise. In this case, express your appreciation for their taking the time to provide the feedback, and then make the suggestion. For example: Happy customer: [singing your praises] You: That is so great to hear. We really try our best to [do what you’re being praised... [Content Truncated] Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence is about the power of 'customer reviews' for businesses and how to solicit them. This type of 'review' is distinct from a scientific 'review' article in biomedicine, making it logically irrelevant to the claim. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This evidence focuses on the power and importance of customer reviews for businesses and SEO. It has no connection to language models in biomedicine or the stated purpose of a scientific review in that field. Therefore, it is irrelevant to the claim. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence focuses on the power and methods of asking for customer reviews for businesses and their impact on marketing and SEO. It has no relevance to scientific literature reviews or language models in biomedicine. 
Link for checking: trustpilot.com 
Evidence: We're all about consumer reviews. Get the real inside story from shoppers like you. Read, write and share reviews on Trustpilot today. 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence discusses 'consumer reviews' on Trustpilot. This is about customer feedback for products or services, which is logically irrelevant to a scientific review on language models in biomedicine. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This evidence is about consumer reviews on Trustpilot. It is entirely unrelated to the scientific landscape of language models in biomedicine or the function of a research review. Therefore, it is irrelevant to the claim. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence is about consumer reviews on Trustpilot, a platform for product and service feedback. It bears no connection to the domain of scientific research or language models in biomedicine. 
Link for checking: demandhub.co 
Evidence: By engaging with reviews, you gain insights into what customers appreciate and areas needing refinement. These insights help you improve ... 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence pertains to 'customer reviews' providing insights for business improvement. This is logically unrelated to a scientific review of language models in biomedicine. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This evidence discusses gaining insights from customer reviews to improve services, which is irrelevant to the topic of language models in biomedicine or a scientific review's purpose. Therefore, it is irrelevant to the claim. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence pertains to gaining insights from customer reviews to improve business practices. This is a commercial context and is irrelevant to the scientific claim about language models in biomedicine.
Link for checking: wisernotify.com 
Evidence: Positive reviews for real estate help buyers understand the workings of agents. It helps other customers understand the real estate agent's knowledge, skills, ... Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence discusses 'Positive reviews for real estate' agents. This context of 'reviews' is entirely different from a scientific literature review, rendering it irrelevant to the claim. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This evidence talks about positive reviews for real estate agents. It is entirely unrelated to language models in biomedicine or a research review in that field. Therefore, it is irrelevant to the claim. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence discusses the role of positive reviews in real estate for understanding agents. This topic is completely outside the scope of language models in biomedicine. 
Link for checking: peoplegoal.com 
Evidence: Need the right words for employee reviews? These 101 performance review phrases will help you provide balanced, constructive, and motivating 
Reasoning: [Logician]: Logician: This evidence concerns 'employee reviews' and performance phrases. This form of 'review' is distinct from a scientific literature review and is therefore irrelevant to the claim. || [Researcher]: Researcher: This evidence is about phrases for employee reviews. It has no relevance to the claim concerning language models in biomedicine or a scientific review. Therefore, it is irrelevant to the claim. || [Skeptic]: Skeptic: This evidence provides phrases for employee performance reviews. This subject is entirely unrelated to scientific research and the understanding of language models in biomedicine.
